doc/asciidoc/projected-graph-model/named-graph.adoc, before:

[[named-graph]]
= Named graphs

[abstract]
--
This section describes named graphs, which are stored in-memory and can be referenced by a user-defined name.
When Neo4j is restarted, named graphs are lost and will need to be reloaded.
--

As it can take some time to load large graphs into the algorithm data structures, you can pre-load graphs and then later refer to them by name when calling graph algorithm procedures.
After usage, they can be removed from memory to free resources used.

== Loading a named graph

We can load named graphs using either a <<label-relationship-type-projection, label and relationship-type>> or a <<cypher-projection, Cypher>> projection.

.The following will load a graph with the name `my-graph`, for node label `Label` and relationship type `REL_TYPE`
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.load('my-graph','Label','REL_TYPE',{graph:'huge' /*, ... other config */})
YIELD name, graph, direction, undirected, sorted, nodes, loadMillis, alreadyLoaded,
      nodeWeight, relationshipWeight, nodeProperty, loadNodes, loadRelationships;
----

If we want to load a graph based on a <<cypher-projection, Cypher projection>>, we should specify `graph:'cypher'` in the config.

.The following will load a named graph using Cypher projections for nodes and relationships.
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.load('my-graph',
  'MATCH (n) RETURN id(n) AS id',
  'MATCH (a)-->(b) RETURN id(a) AS source, id(b) AS target',
  {graph:'cypher' /*, ... other config */})
YIELD name, graph, direction, undirected, sorted, nodes, loadMillis, alreadyLoaded,
      nodeWeight, relationshipWeight, nodeProperty, loadNodes, loadRelationships;
----

Once we've loaded a named graph we can return details about it.

.The following will return details about a named graph:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.info('my-graph')
YIELD name, type, direction, exists, removed, nodes;
----

Besides node and relationship counts, the procedure can compute information about degree distributions, i.e. the number of relationships per node.
By default, the distribution values are not computed.

.The following will enable computing information about degree distributions:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.info('my-graph', true)
YIELD name, type, direction, exists, removed, nodes, min, max, mean, p50, p75, p90, p95, p99, p999;
----

.In order to set the direction and concurrency for the degree computation, we can provide a parameter map instead:
----
CALL algo.graph.info('my-graph', {direction: 'OUTGOING', concurrency: 8 })
YIELD name, type, direction, exists, removed, nodes, min, max, mean, p50, p75, p90, p95, p99, p999;
----

== Using a named graph

We can use our named graph in queries by specifying its name in the `graph` key of config.

.The following will run the PageRank algorithm on the `my-graph` named graph:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.pageRank(null,null,{graph:'my-graph' /*, ... */})
----

== Loading multiple relationship types

Using the `algo.graph.load` procedure it is possible to load more than one relationship type, as opposed to exactly one type or all types.
In order to specify multiple relationship types, we can provide a relationship type description as known from Cypher `MATCH` pattern declarations.

.The following example will load the graph `my-graph` with relationships that have the type `REL_TYPE1`, `REL_TYPE2` or `REL_TYPE3`:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.load('my-graph', null, 'REL_TYPE1 | REL_TYPE2 | REL_TYPE3', {direction: 'OUTGOING', concurrency: 8 })
----

Having loaded a graph with multiple relationship types gives us several options for how we can use the relationships.

If we call an algorithm with no additional relationship type information, as described in the section above, the algorithm will use all loaded relationships.

However, it is also possible to only use a subset of the loaded relationships by specifying the requested relationship types in the `relationship` parameter for the algorithm.

.The following example will run PageRank only on relationships of type `REL_TYPE1` or `REL_TYPE2`:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.pageRank(null, 'REL_TYPE1 | REL_TYPE2', {graph: 'my-graph'})
----

[NOTE]
====
Specifying a subset of relationship types in an algorithm call only works when the graph was explicitly loaded with multiple relationship types.
If the graph was loaded with `null`, no relationship type information is retained in the graph.
====

[CAUTION]
====
Loading a lot of multiple relationship types can have a negative impact on performace, both during load and execution time.
It is best to only load as few types as needed.
====

[[deduplication-of-parallel-relationships]]
== Deduplication of parallel relationships

The in-memory graph models offer different ways of handling multiple (parallel) relationships between a given pair of nodes.
By default, the Huge graph assumes that the relationship projection only contains one relationship between a pair of nodes and will simply ignore all other relationships (see `skip` below).

In order to control the deduplication behavior we can pass the `duplicateRelationships` key in the config to decide what should happen with duplicates.

`duplicateRelationships` supports the following options:

* `none` - keeps all relationships between a given pair of nodes / no deduplication.
* `skip` - keeps the first encountered relationship (and associated weight).
* `sum` - sums the associated weights of all encountered relationships.
* `min` - keeps the minimum weight of all encountered relationships.
* `max` - keeps the maximum weight of all encountered relationships.

Note that setting an explict deduplication strategy, other then `none` or `skip` will increase the relationship loading time.

.The following query loads a graph of roads between locations keeping all the `ROAD` relationships between two `Loc` nodes.
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.load('allRoads', 'Loc', 'ROAD', {
  graph: 'huge',
  relationshipWeight: 'cost',
  duplicateRelationships: 'none'})
----

.The following query loads a graph of roads between locations keeping only those `ROAD` relationships with the minimal cost.
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.load('cheapestRoads', 'Loc', 'ROAD', {
  graph: 'huge',
  relationshipWeight: 'cost',
  duplicateRelationships: 'sum'})
----

A Cypher projected graph will, by default, store all projected relationships without any deduplication (see `none` below).
As for the Huge graph, we can specify a `deduplicateRelationships` strategy (see <<deduplication-of-parallel-relationships>>).

.The following runs shortest path over a graph based on Cypher projections, picking the `ROAD` relationship with minimum cost:
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (start:Loc {name: 'A'}), (end:Loc {name: 'F'})
CALL algo.shortestPath(start, end, 'cost', {
  nodeQuery:'MATCH (n:Loc) RETURN id(n) as id',
  relationshipQuery:'MATCH (n:Loc)-[r:ROAD]->(m:Loc) RETURN id(n) AS source, id(m) AS target, r.cost AS weight',
  {graph: 'cypher', duplicateRelationships: 'min'})
YIELD writeMillis, loadMillis, nodeCount, totalCost
RETURN writeMillis, loadMillis, nodeCount, totalCost
----

== Loading multiple relationship properties

In some scenarios, it is useful to load more than one relationship property.
For the `load.graph` procedure, this can be configured via the `relationshipProperties` parameter.

The parameter is configured using a map in which each key refers to a user-defined property key.
Any algorithm that supports relationship properties can make use of these.

The value under each property key is a configuration, that is applied when loading relationship properties.
In the configuration we specify the Neo4j relationship property to load.
Optionally, we can define an aggregation function to set the deduplication behavior and a default property value which is used for absent property values (see <<deduplication-of-parallel-relationships>>).

For the following example, let's assume that each `ROAD` relationship stores two properties: the `cost` (distance) and the road `quality` (between 1 and 10).

.The following query loads all roads, deduplicates parallel relationships and aggregates them by their distance and also by their quality.
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.load('allRoads', 'Loc', 'ROAD', {
  graph: 'huge',
  relationshipProperties: {
    minDistance: {
        property: 'cost',
        aggregation: 'MIN',
        defaultValue: 1.0
    },
    maxQuality: {
        property: 'quality',
        aggregation: 'MAX',
        defaultValue: 5.0
    }
  }})
----

When executed, our `allRoads` in-memory graph stores two relationship properties: `minDistance` and `maxQuality`.
We can access the loaded properties by specifying them in an algorithm configuration.
Let us use `algo.shortestPath` again as an example weighted algorithm.

.We first compute the shortest path using the `minDistance` property as weight to compute the path with shortest distance:
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (start:Loc {name: 'A'}), (end:Loc {name: 'F'})
CALL algo.shortestPath(start, end, 'minDistance', {graph: 'allRoads'})
YIELD writeMillis, loadMillis, nodeCount, totalCost
RETURN writeMillis, loadMillis, nodeCount, totalCost
----

.We use the same graph, but the `maxQuality` property if we are interested in the path with the best quality:
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (start:Loc {name: 'A'}), (end:Loc {name: 'F'})
CALL algo.shortestPath(start, end, 'maxQuality', {graph: 'allRoads'})
YIELD writeMillis, loadMillis, nodeCount, totalCost
RETURN writeMillis, loadMillis, nodeCount, totalCost
----

With the short-hand syntax for specifying property mappings we can skip the `aggregation` and `defaultWeight` parameters.
If those are omitted, the procedure uses `SKIP` as default aggregation function and `Double.NaN` as default property value.

.The following query loads the graph and allows us to refer to the `cost` property via `distance`:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.load('allRoads', 'Loc', 'ROAD', {
  graph: 'huge',
  relationshipProperties: { distance: 'cost' }
})
----

Note that in this particular shortest path example, using the default property value is not recommended.

[CAUTION]
====
As with relationship types, loading a lot of multiple relationship properties can have a negative impact on performace, both during load and execution time.
It is best to only load as few properties as needed.
====

== List all named graphs

We can get an overview over all loaded named graphs.

.The following will return information about all currently loaded graphs:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.list()
YIELD name, nodes, relationships, type, direction;
----

.The following will remove all currently loaded graphs:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.list() YIELD name
CALL algo.graph.remove(name) YIELD removed
RETURN name, removed
----


== Remove named graph

Once we've finished using the named graph we can remove them to free up memory.

.The following will remove the `my-graph` named graph:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.remove('my-graph')
YIELD name, type, exists, removed, nodes;
----

Commit message:

Refactor doc content for named graphs with regard to multi-rel types

doc/asciidoc/projected-graph-model/named-graph.adoc, after:

[[named-graph]]
= Named graphs

[abstract]
--
This section describes named graphs, which are stored in-memory and can be referenced by a user-defined name.
When Neo4j is restarted, named graphs are lost and will need to be reloaded.
--

As it can take some time to load large graphs into the algorithm data structures, you can pre-load graphs and then later refer to them by name when calling graph algorithm procedures.
After usage, they can be removed from memory to free resources used.

== Loading a named graph

We can load named graphs using either a <<label-relationship-type-projection, label and relationship-type>> or a <<cypher-projection, Cypher>> projection.

.The following will load a graph with the name `my-graph`, for node label `Label` and relationship type `REL_TYPE`
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.load('my-graph','Label','REL_TYPE',{graph:'huge' /*, ... other config */})
YIELD name, graph, direction, undirected, sorted, nodes, loadMillis, alreadyLoaded,
      nodeWeight, relationshipWeight, nodeProperty, loadNodes, loadRelationships;
----

If we want to load a graph based on a <<cypher-projection, Cypher projection>>, we should specify `graph:'cypher'` in the config.

.The following will load a named graph using Cypher projections for nodes and relationships.
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.load('my-graph',
  'MATCH (n) RETURN id(n) AS id',
  'MATCH (a)-->(b) RETURN id(a) AS source, id(b) AS target',
  {graph:'cypher' /*, ... other config */})
YIELD name, graph, direction, undirected, sorted, nodes, loadMillis, alreadyLoaded,
      nodeWeight, relationshipWeight, nodeProperty, loadNodes, loadRelationships;
----

Once we've loaded a named graph we can return details about it.

.The following will return details about a named graph:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.info('my-graph')
YIELD name, type, direction, exists, removed, nodes;
----

Besides node and relationship counts, the procedure can compute information about degree distributions, i.e. the number of relationships per node.
By default, the distribution values are not computed.

.The following will enable computing information about degree distributions:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.info('my-graph', true)
YIELD name, type, direction, exists, removed, nodes, min, max, mean, p50, p75, p90, p95, p99, p999;
----

.In order to set the direction and concurrency for the degree computation, we can provide a parameter map instead:
----
CALL algo.graph.info('my-graph', {direction: 'OUTGOING', concurrency: 8 })
YIELD name, type, direction, exists, removed, nodes, min, max, mean, p50, p75, p90, p95, p99, p999;
----

== Using a named graph

We can use our named graph in queries by specifying its name in the `graph` key of config.

.The following will run the PageRank algorithm on the `my-graph` named graph:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.pageRank(null,null,{graph:'my-graph' /*, ... */})
----

== Loading multiple relationship types

Using the `algo.graph.load` procedure it is possible to load more than one relationship type, as opposed to exactly one type or all types.
In order to specify multiple relationship types, we can provide a relationship type description as known from Cypher `MATCH` pattern declarations.

.The following example will load the graph `my-graph` with relationships that have the type `REL_TYPE1`, `REL_TYPE2` or `REL_TYPE3`:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.load('my-graph', null, 'REL_TYPE1 | REL_TYPE2 | REL_TYPE3', {direction: 'OUTGOING', concurrency: 8 })
----

Having loaded a graph with multiple relationship types gives us several options for how we can use the relationships.

If we call an algorithm with no additional relationship type information, as described in the section above, the algorithm will use all loaded relationships.

However, it is also possible to only use a subset of the loaded relationships by specifying the requested relationship types in the `relationship` parameter for the algorithm.

.The following example will run PageRank only on relationships of type `REL_TYPE1` or `REL_TYPE2`:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.pageRank(null, 'REL_TYPE1 | REL_TYPE2', {graph: 'my-graph'})
----

[NOTE]
====
Using just a subset of the loaded relationships is currently only possible for a label and relationship-type projection.
====

[NOTE]
====
Specifying a subset of relationship types in an algorithm call only works when the graph was explicitly loaded with multiple relationship types.
If the graph was loaded with `null`, no relationship type information is retained in the graph.
====

[CAUTION]
====
Loading a lot of multiple relationship types can have a negative impact on performace, both during load and execution time.
It is best to only load as few types as needed.
====

[[deduplication-of-parallel-relationships]]
== Deduplication of parallel relationships

Named graphs offer different ways of handling multiple - so called "parallel" - relationships between a given pair of nodes.

=== Label and relationship-type projection

By default, the Huge graph assumes that the relationship projection only contains one relationship between a pair of nodes and will simply ignore all other relationships (see `skip` below).
In order to control the deduplication behavior we can pass the `duplicateRelationships` key in the config to decide what should happen with duplicates.

`duplicateRelationships` supports the following options:

* `none` - keeps all relationships between a given pair of nodes / no deduplication.
* `skip` - keeps the first encountered relationship (and associated weight).
* `sum` - sums the associated weights of all encountered relationships.
* `min` - keeps the minimum weight of all encountered relationships.
* `max` - keeps the maximum weight of all encountered relationships.

Note that setting an explict deduplication strategy, other then `none` or `skip` will increase the relationship loading time.

.The following query loads a graph of roads between locations keeping all the `ROAD` relationships between two `Loc` nodes.
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.load('allRoads', 'Loc', 'ROAD', {
  graph: 'huge',
  relationshipWeight: 'cost',
  duplicateRelationships: 'none'})
----

.The following query loads a graph of roads between locations keeping only those `ROAD` relationships with the minimal cost.
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.load('cheapestRoads', 'Loc', 'ROAD', {
  graph: 'huge',
  relationshipWeight: 'cost',
  duplicateRelationships: 'sum'})
----

=== Cypher projection

A Cypher projected graph will, by default, store all projected relationships without any deduplication (see `none` below).
As for the Huge graph, we can specify a `deduplicateRelationships` strategy.

.The following runs shortest path over a graph based on Cypher projections, picking the `ROAD` relationship with minimum cost:
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (start:Loc {name: 'A'}), (end:Loc {name: 'F'})
CALL algo.shortestPath(start, end, 'cost', {
  nodeQuery:'MATCH (n:Loc) RETURN id(n) as id',
  relationshipQuery:'MATCH (n:Loc)-[r:ROAD]->(m:Loc) RETURN id(n) AS source, id(m) AS target, r.cost AS weight',
  {graph: 'cypher', duplicateRelationships: 'min'})
YIELD writeMillis, loadMillis, nodeCount, totalCost
RETURN writeMillis, loadMillis, nodeCount, totalCost
----

== Loading multiple relationship properties

In some scenarios, it is useful to load more than one relationship property.
For the `load.graph` procedure, this can be configured via the `relationshipProperties` parameter.

The parameter is configured using a map in which each key refers to a user-defined property key.
Any algorithm that supports relationship properties can make use of these.

The value under each property key is a configuration, that is applied when loading relationship properties.
In the configuration we specify the Neo4j relationship property to load.
Optionally, we can define an aggregation function to set the deduplication behavior and a default property value which is used for absent property values (see <<deduplication-of-parallel-relationships>>).

For the following example, let's assume that each `ROAD` relationship stores two properties: the `cost` (distance) and the road `quality` (between 1 and 10).

.The following query loads all roads, deduplicates parallel relationships and aggregates them by their distance and also by their quality.
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.load('allRoads', 'Loc', 'ROAD', {
  graph: 'huge',
  relationshipProperties: {
    minDistance: {
        property: 'cost',
        aggregation: 'MIN',
        defaultValue: 1.0
    },
    maxQuality: {
        property: 'quality',
        aggregation: 'MAX',
        defaultValue: 5.0
    }
  }})
----

When executed, our `allRoads` in-memory graph stores two relationship properties: `minDistance` and `maxQuality`.
We can access the loaded properties by specifying them in an algorithm configuration.
Let us use `algo.shortestPath` again as an example weighted algorithm.

.We first compute the shortest path using the `minDistance` property as weight to compute the path with shortest distance:
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (start:Loc {name: 'A'}), (end:Loc {name: 'F'})
CALL algo.shortestPath(start, end, 'minDistance', {graph: 'allRoads'})
YIELD writeMillis, loadMillis, nodeCount, totalCost
RETURN writeMillis, loadMillis, nodeCount, totalCost
----

.We use the same graph, but the `maxQuality` property if we are interested in the path with the best quality:
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (start:Loc {name: 'A'}), (end:Loc {name: 'F'})
CALL algo.shortestPath(start, end, 'maxQuality', {graph: 'allRoads'})
YIELD writeMillis, loadMillis, nodeCount, totalCost
RETURN writeMillis, loadMillis, nodeCount, totalCost
----

With the short-hand syntax for specifying property mappings we can skip the `aggregation` and `defaultWeight` parameters.
If those are omitted, the procedure uses `SKIP` as default aggregation function and `Double.NaN` as default property value.

.The following query loads the graph and allows us to refer to the `cost` property via `distance`:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.load('allRoads', 'Loc', 'ROAD', {
  graph: 'huge',
  relationshipProperties: { distance: 'cost' }
})
----

Note that in this particular shortest path example, using the default property value is not recommended.

[NOTE]
====
Loading multiple relationship properties is currently only supported for label and relationship type projections.
====

[CAUTION]
====
As with relationship types, loading a lot of multiple relationship properties can have a negative impact on performace, both during load and execution time.
It is best to only load as few properties as needed.
====

== List all named graphs

We can get an overview over all loaded named graphs.

.The following will return information about all currently loaded graphs:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.list()
YIELD name, nodes, relationships, type, direction;
----

.The following will remove all currently loaded graphs:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.list() YIELD name
CALL algo.graph.remove(name) YIELD removed
RETURN name, removed
----


== Remove named graph

Once we've finished using the named graph we can remove them to free up memory.

.The following will remove the `my-graph` named graph:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.remove('my-graph')
YIELD name, type, exists, removed, nodes;
----
