doc/asciidoc/closeness-centrality.adoc, before:

[[algorithms-closeness-centrality]]
= The Closeness Centrality algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Closeness Centrality algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

// tag::introduction[]
Closeness centrality is a way of detecting nodes that are able to spread information very efficiently through a graph.

The closeness centrality of a node measures its average farness (inverse distance) to all other nodes.
Nodes with a high closeness score have the shortest distances to all other nodes.
// end::introduction[]

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-closeness-centrality-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-closeness-centrality-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the Closeness Centrality algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-closeness-centrality-limitations, Constraints - when not to use the Closeness Centrality algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-closeness-centrality-sample, Closeness Centrality algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithms-closeness-centrality-hgp, Huge graph projection>>
* <<algorithms-closeness-centrality-cp, Cypher projection>>
* <<algorithms-closeness-centrality-syntax, Syntax>>
* <<algorithms-closeness-centrality-support, Graph type support>>


[[algorithms-closeness-centrality-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]
For each node, the Closeness Centrality algorithm calculates the sum of its distances to all other nodes, based on calculating the shortest paths between all pairs of nodes.
The resulting sum is then inverted to determine the closeness centrality score for that node.
// end::explanation[]

// tag::formula[]
The *raw closeness centrality* of a node is calculated using the following formula:

`raw closeness centrality(node) = 1 / sum(distance from node to all other nodes)`

It is more common to normalize this score so that it represents the average length of the shortest paths rather than their sum.
This adjustment allow comparisons of the closeness centrality of nodes of graphs of different sizes

The formula for *normalized closeness centrality* is as follows:

`normalized closeness centrality(node) = (number of nodes - 1) / sum(distance from node to all other nodes)`
// end::formula[]


[[algorithms-closeness-centrality-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the Closeness Centrality algorithm

// tag::use-case[]

* Closeness centrality is used to research organizational networks, where individuals with high closeness centrality are in a favourable position to control and acquire vital information and resources within the organization.
  One such study is http://www.orgnet.com/MappingTerroristNetworks.pdf["Mapping Networks of Terrorist Cells"^] by Valdis E. Krebs.

* Closeness centrality can be interpreted as an estimated time of arrival of information flowing through telecommunications or package delivery networks where information flows through shortest paths to a predefined target.
  It can also be used in networks where information spreads through all shortest paths simultaneously, such as infection spreading through a social network.
  Find more details in http://www.analytictech.com/borgatti/papers/centflow.pdf["Centrality and network flow"] by Stephen P. Borgatti.

* Closeness centrality has been used to estimate the importance of words in a document, based on a graph-based keyphrase extraction process.
  This process is described by Florian Boudin in https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/I/I13/I13-1102.pdf["A Comparison of Centrality Measures for Graph-Based Keyphrase Extraction"].

// end::use-case[]


[[algorithms-closeness-centrality-limitations]]
== Constraints - when not to use the Closeness Centrality algorithm

// tag::constraint[]
* Academically, closeness centrality works best on connected graphs.
  If we use the original formula on an unconnected graph, we can end up with an infinite distance between two nodes in separate connected components.
  This means that we'll end up with an infinite closeness centrality score when we sum up all the distances from that node.
+
In practice, a variation on the original formula is used so that we don't run into these issues.
// end::constraint[]


[[algorithms-closeness-centrality-sample]]
== Closeness Centrality algorithm sample

image::closeness_centrality.png[]

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/closeness-centrality.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/closeness-centrality.cypher[tag=stream-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/closeness-centrality.cypher[tag=write-sample-graph]
----

// tag::stream-sample-graph-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name | Centrality weight
| C    | 0.6666666666666666
| B    | 0.5714285714285714
| D    | 0.5714285714285714
| A    | 0.4
| E    | 0.4
|===
// end::stream-sample-graph-result[]

// tag::stream-sample-graph-explanation[]
C is the best connected node in this graph, although B and D aren't far behind.
A and E don't have close ties to many other nodes, so their scores are lower.
Any node that has a direct connection to all other nodes would score 1.
// end::stream-sample-graph-explanation[]

Calculation:

- count farness in each msbfs-callback
- divide by N-1

`N = 5`        // number of nodes

`k = N-1 = 4`  // used for normalization

....
     A     B     C     D     E
 --|-----------------------------
 A | 0     1     2     3     4       // farness between each pair of nodes
 B | 1     0     1     2     3
 C | 2     1     0     1     2
 D | 3     2     1     0     1
 E | 4     3     2     1     0
 --|-----------------------------
 S | 10    7     6     7     10      // raw closeness centrality
 ==|=============================
k/S| 0.4  0.57  0.67  0.57   0.4     // normalized closeness centrality
....


[[algorithms-closeness-centrality-hgp]]
== Huge graph projection

include::huge-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'huge'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/closeness-centrality.cypher[tag=huge-projection]
----


[[algorithms-closeness-centrality-cp]]
== Cypher projection

include::projected-graph-model/cypher-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'cypher'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/closeness-centrality.cypher[tag=cypher-loading]
----


[[algorithms-closeness-centrality-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.closeness(label:String, relationship:String,
    {write:true, writeProperty:'centrality',graph:'huge', concurrency:4})
YIELD nodes, loadMillis, computeMillis, writeMillis
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name             | Type    | Default                | Optional | Description
| label            | string  | null                   | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| relationship     | string  | null                   | yes      | The relationship-type to load from the graph. If null, load all relationships
| write            | boolean | true                   | yes      | Specifies if the result should be written back as a node property
| concurrency      | int     | available CPUs         | yes      | The number of concurrent threads
| readConcurrency  | int     | value of `concurrency` | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for reading the graph.
| writeConcurrency | int     | value of `concurrency` | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for writing the result.
| writeProperty    | string  | 'centrality'           | yes      | The property name written back to
| graph            | string  | 'huge'                 | yes      | Use 'huge' when describing the subset of the graph with label and relationship-type parameter,. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset with cypher node-statement and relationship-statement
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name        | Type | Description
| nodes       | int  | The number of nodes considered
| loadMillis  | int  | Milliseconds for loading data
| evalMillis  | int  | Milliseconds for running the algorithm
| writeMillis | int  | Milliseconds for writing result data back
|===


.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.closeness.stream(label:String, relationship:String, {concurrency:4})
YIELD nodeId, centrality
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name             | Type   | Default                | Optional | Description
| label            | string | null                   | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| relationship     | string | null                   | yes      | The relationship-type to load from the graph. If null, load all relationships
| concurrency      | int    | available CPUs         | yes      | The number of concurrent threads
| readConcurrency  | int    | value of `concurrency` | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for reading the graph.
| writeConcurrency | int    | value of `concurrency` | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for writing the result.
| graph            | string | 'huge'                 | yes      | Use 'huge' when describing the subset of the graph with label and relationship-type parameter. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset with cypher node-statement and relationship-statement
|===

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Name       | Type  | Description
| node       | long  | Node ID
| centrality | float | Closeness centrality weight
|===


[[algorithms-closeness-centrality-support]]
== Graph type support

The Closeness Centrality algorithm supports the following graph types:

* [x] directed, unweighted
* [ ] directed, weighted
* [x] undirected, unweighted
** Only with cypher projection
* [ ] undirected, weighted


ifndef::env-docs[]
== References

// tag::references[]
* [1]  https://infoscience.epfl.ch/record/200525/files/[EN]ASNA09.pdf?
* https://toreopsahl.com/2010/03/20/closeness-centrality-in-networks-with-disconnected-components/
* http://www.casos.cs.cmu.edu/publications/papers/CMU-ISR-11-113.pdf
* http://mrvar.fdv.uni-lj.si/sola/info4/uvod/part4.pdf
* http://qualquant.org/wp-content/uploads/networks/2008%201-7-3.pdf
* https://www.andrew.cmu.edu/user/andersok/Katharine_A._Anderson/Social_Economic_and_Information_Networks_files/CentralitySlides.pdf
// end::references[]
endif::env-docs[]

ifdef::implementation[]
// tag::implementation[]


== Implementation details

:leveloffset: +1
// copied from: https://github.com/neo4j-contrib/neo4j-graph-algorithms/issues/99

Closeness centrality of a node is a measure of centrality in a network, calculated as the sum of the length of the shortest paths between the node and all other nodes in the graph.
Thus, the more central a node is, the closer it is to all other nodes.


== Details

* Use `org.neo4j.graphalgo.impl.msbfs.MultiSourceBFS` for BFS
* MSBFS gives depth and number of sources.
* In this scheme, the farness can be calculated as follows

`farness(v) = farness(v) + numberOfSources(v) * depth(v)`

// end::implementation[]
endif::implementation[]

Commit message:

Remove writeConcurrency from streaming variants
Also,

- terminate descriptions with period.
- mention for 'concurrency' parameter that it becomes the default for
readConcurrency and writeConcurrency.
- be a bit more conistent about quoting config param keys.
- remove incorrect hyphenation.
- remove some unnecessary whitespace.

doc/asciidoc/closeness-centrality.adoc, after:

[[algorithms-closeness-centrality]]
= The Closeness Centrality algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Closeness Centrality algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

// tag::introduction[]
Closeness centrality is a way of detecting nodes that are able to spread information very efficiently through a graph.

The closeness centrality of a node measures its average farness (inverse distance) to all other nodes.
Nodes with a high closeness score have the shortest distances to all other nodes.
// end::introduction[]

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-closeness-centrality-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-closeness-centrality-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the Closeness Centrality algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-closeness-centrality-limitations, Constraints - when not to use the Closeness Centrality algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-closeness-centrality-sample, Closeness Centrality algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithms-closeness-centrality-hgp, Huge graph projection>>
* <<algorithms-closeness-centrality-cp, Cypher projection>>
* <<algorithms-closeness-centrality-syntax, Syntax>>
* <<algorithms-closeness-centrality-support, Graph type support>>


[[algorithms-closeness-centrality-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]
For each node, the Closeness Centrality algorithm calculates the sum of its distances to all other nodes, based on calculating the shortest paths between all pairs of nodes.
The resulting sum is then inverted to determine the closeness centrality score for that node.
// end::explanation[]

// tag::formula[]
The *raw closeness centrality* of a node is calculated using the following formula:

`raw closeness centrality(node) = 1 / sum(distance from node to all other nodes)`

It is more common to normalize this score so that it represents the average length of the shortest paths rather than their sum.
This adjustment allow comparisons of the closeness centrality of nodes of graphs of different sizes

The formula for *normalized closeness centrality* is as follows:

`normalized closeness centrality(node) = (number of nodes - 1) / sum(distance from node to all other nodes)`
// end::formula[]


[[algorithms-closeness-centrality-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the Closeness Centrality algorithm

// tag::use-case[]

* Closeness centrality is used to research organizational networks, where individuals with high closeness centrality are in a favourable position to control and acquire vital information and resources within the organization.
  One such study is http://www.orgnet.com/MappingTerroristNetworks.pdf["Mapping Networks of Terrorist Cells"^] by Valdis E. Krebs.

* Closeness centrality can be interpreted as an estimated time of arrival of information flowing through telecommunications or package delivery networks where information flows through shortest paths to a predefined target.
  It can also be used in networks where information spreads through all shortest paths simultaneously, such as infection spreading through a social network.
  Find more details in http://www.analytictech.com/borgatti/papers/centflow.pdf["Centrality and network flow"] by Stephen P. Borgatti.

* Closeness centrality has been used to estimate the importance of words in a document, based on a graph-based keyphrase extraction process.
  This process is described by Florian Boudin in https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/I/I13/I13-1102.pdf["A Comparison of Centrality Measures for Graph-Based Keyphrase Extraction"].

// end::use-case[]


[[algorithms-closeness-centrality-limitations]]
== Constraints - when not to use the Closeness Centrality algorithm

// tag::constraint[]
* Academically, closeness centrality works best on connected graphs.
  If we use the original formula on an unconnected graph, we can end up with an infinite distance between two nodes in separate connected components.
  This means that we'll end up with an infinite closeness centrality score when we sum up all the distances from that node.
+
In practice, a variation on the original formula is used so that we don't run into these issues.
// end::constraint[]


[[algorithms-closeness-centrality-sample]]
== Closeness Centrality algorithm sample

image::closeness_centrality.png[]

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/closeness-centrality.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/closeness-centrality.cypher[tag=stream-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/closeness-centrality.cypher[tag=write-sample-graph]
----

// tag::stream-sample-graph-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name | Centrality weight
| C    | 0.6666666666666666
| B    | 0.5714285714285714
| D    | 0.5714285714285714
| A    | 0.4
| E    | 0.4
|===
// end::stream-sample-graph-result[]

// tag::stream-sample-graph-explanation[]
C is the best connected node in this graph, although B and D aren't far behind.
A and E don't have close ties to many other nodes, so their scores are lower.
Any node that has a direct connection to all other nodes would score 1.
// end::stream-sample-graph-explanation[]

Calculation:

- count farness in each msbfs-callback
- divide by N-1

`N = 5`        // number of nodes

`k = N-1 = 4`  // used for normalization

....
     A     B     C     D     E
 --|-----------------------------
 A | 0     1     2     3     4       // farness between each pair of nodes
 B | 1     0     1     2     3
 C | 2     1     0     1     2
 D | 3     2     1     0     1
 E | 4     3     2     1     0
 --|-----------------------------
 S | 10    7     6     7     10      // raw closeness centrality
 ==|=============================
k/S| 0.4  0.57  0.67  0.57   0.4     // normalized closeness centrality
....


[[algorithms-closeness-centrality-hgp]]
== Huge graph projection

include::huge-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'huge'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/closeness-centrality.cypher[tag=huge-projection]
----


[[algorithms-closeness-centrality-cp]]
== Cypher projection

include::projected-graph-model/cypher-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'cypher'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/closeness-centrality.cypher[tag=cypher-loading]
----


[[algorithms-closeness-centrality-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.closeness(label:String, relationship:String,
    {write:true, writeProperty:'centrality',graph:'huge', concurrency:4})
YIELD nodes, loadMillis, computeMillis, writeMillis
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name             | Type    | Default                | Optional | Description
| label            | string  | null                   | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes.
| relationship     | string  | null                   | yes      | The relationship type to load from the graph. If null, load all relationships.
| write            | boolean | true                   | yes      | Specifies if the result should be written back as a node property.
| concurrency      | int     | available CPUs         | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for running the algorithm. Also provides the default value for 'readConcurrency' and 'writeConcurrency'.
| readConcurrency  | int     | value of 'concurrency' | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for reading the graph.
| writeConcurrency | int     | value of 'concurrency' | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for writing the result.
| writeProperty    | string  | 'centrality'           | yes      | The property name written back to.
| graph            | string  | 'huge'                 | yes      | Use 'huge' when describing the subset of the graph with label and relationship-type parameter. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset with cypher node statement and relationship statement.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name        | Type | Description
| nodes       | int  | The number of nodes considered.
| loadMillis  | int  | Milliseconds for loading data.
| evalMillis  | int  | Milliseconds for running the algorithm.
| writeMillis | int  | Milliseconds for writing result data back.
|===


.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.closeness.stream(label:String, relationship:String, {concurrency:4})
YIELD nodeId, centrality
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name             | Type   | Default                | Optional | Description
| label            | string | null                   | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes.
| relationship     | string | null                   | yes      | The relationship type to load from the graph. If null, load all relationships.
| concurrency      | int    | available CPUs         | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for running the algorithm. Also provides the default value for 'readConcurrency'.
| readConcurrency  | int    | value of 'concurrency' | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for reading the graph.
| graph            | string | 'huge'                 | yes      | Use 'huge' when describing the subset of the graph with label and relationship-type parameter. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset with cypher node statement and relationship statement.
|===

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Name       | Type  | Description
| node       | long  | Node ID
| centrality | float | Closeness centrality weight
|===


[[algorithms-closeness-centrality-support]]
== Graph type support

The Closeness Centrality algorithm supports the following graph types:

* [x] directed, unweighted
* [ ] directed, weighted
* [x] undirected, unweighted
** Only with cypher projection
* [ ] undirected, weighted


ifndef::env-docs[]
== References

// tag::references[]
* [1]  https://infoscience.epfl.ch/record/200525/files/[EN]ASNA09.pdf?
* https://toreopsahl.com/2010/03/20/closeness-centrality-in-networks-with-disconnected-components/
* http://www.casos.cs.cmu.edu/publications/papers/CMU-ISR-11-113.pdf
* http://mrvar.fdv.uni-lj.si/sola/info4/uvod/part4.pdf
* http://qualquant.org/wp-content/uploads/networks/2008%201-7-3.pdf
* https://www.andrew.cmu.edu/user/andersok/Katharine_A._Anderson/Social_Economic_and_Information_Networks_files/CentralitySlides.pdf
// end::references[]
endif::env-docs[]

ifdef::implementation[]
// tag::implementation[]


== Implementation details

:leveloffset: +1
// copied from: https://github.com/neo4j-contrib/neo4j-graph-algorithms/issues/99

Closeness centrality of a node is a measure of centrality in a network, calculated as the sum of the length of the shortest paths between the node and all other nodes in the graph.
Thus, the more central a node is, the closer it is to all other nodes.


== Details

* Use `org.neo4j.graphalgo.impl.msbfs.MultiSourceBFS` for BFS
* MSBFS gives depth and number of sources.
* In this scheme, the farness can be calculated as follows

`farness(v) = farness(v) + numberOfSources(v) * depth(v)`

// end::implementation[]
endif::implementation[]
