doc/asciidoc/degree-centrality.adoc, before:

[[algorithms-degree-centrality]]
= The Degree Centrality algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Degree Centrality algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

// tag::introduction[]
Degree centrality measures the number of incoming and outgoing relationships from a node.

The Degree Centrality algorithm can help us find popular nodes in a graph.
// end::introduction[]

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-degree-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-degree-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the Degree Centrality algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-degree-sample, Degree Centrality algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithms-degree-weighted-sample, Weighted Degree Centrality algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithms-degree-hgp, Huge graph projection>>
* <<algorithms-degree-cp, Cypher projection>>
* <<algorithms-degree-syntax, Syntax>>


[[algorithms-degree-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]
Degree Centrality was proposed by Linton C. Freeman in his 1979 paper http://leonidzhukov.net/hse/2014/socialnetworks/papers/freeman79-centrality.pdf[Centrality in Social Networks Conceptual Clarification^].
While the Degree Centrality algorithm can be used to find the popularity of individual nodes, it is often used as part of a global analysis where we calculate the minimum degree, maximum degree, mean degree, and standard deviation across the whole graph.

// end::explanation[]


[[algorithms-degree-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the Degree Centrality algorithm


// tag::use-case[]

* Degree centrality is an important component of any attempt to determine the most important people on a social network.
For example, in BrandWatch's https://www.brandwatch.com/blog/react-influential-men-and-women-2017/[most influential men and women on Twitter 2017^] the top 5 people in each category have over 40m followers each.

* Weighted degree centrality has been used to help separate fraudsters from legitimate users of an online auction.
The weighted centrality for fraudsters is significantly higher because they tend to collude with each other to artificially increase the price of items.
Read more in https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-23461-8_11[Two Step graph-based semi-supervised Learning for Online Auction Fraud Detection^]

// end::use-case[]


[[algorithms-degree-sample]]
== Degree Centrality algorithm sample

This sample will explain the Degree Centrality algorithm, using a simple graph:

.Create sample graph
[source,cypher]
----
include::scripts/degree-centrality.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results, showing which users have the most followers:
[source,cypher]
----
include::scripts/degree-centrality.cypher[tag=stream-sample-graph-followers]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and store results, showing which users have the most followers:
[source,cypher]
----
include::scripts/degree-centrality.cypher[tag=write-sample-graph-followers]
----

// tag::stream-sample-graph-followers-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name | Followers
| Doug    | 5.0
| Bridget | 1.0
| Charles | 1.0
| Michael | 1.0
| Mark    | 0.0
| Alice   | 0.0
|===
// end::stream-sample-graph-followers-result[]

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results, showing which users follow the most other users:
[source,cypher]
----
include::scripts/degree-centrality.cypher[tag=stream-sample-graph-following]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and store results, showing which users follow the most other users:
[source,cypher]
----
include::scripts/degree-centrality.cypher[tag=write-sample-graph-following]
----

// tag::stream-sample-graph-following-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name | Following
| Alice   | 3.0
| Mark    | 2.0
| Bridget | 1.0
| Charles | 1.0
| Michael | 1.0
| Doug    | 0.0
|===
// end::stream-sample-graph-following-result[]

// tag::stream-sample-graph-explanation[]

We can see that Doug is the most popular user in our imaginary Twitter graph, with 5 followers - all other users follow him, but he doesn't follow anybody back.
In the real Twitter network celebrities have very high follower counts but tend to follow very few back people.
We could therefore consider Doug a celebrity!

// end::stream-sample-graph-explanation[]


[[algorithms-degree-weighted-sample]]
== Weighted Degree Centrality algorithm sample

This sample will explain the weighted Degree Centrality algorithm, using a simple graph:


.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/degree-centrality.cypher[tag=create-sample-weighted-graph]
----

This algorithm is a variant of the Degree Centrality algorithm, that measures the sum of the weights of incoming and outgoing relationships.

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results, showing which users have the most weighted followers:
[source,cypher]
----
include::scripts/degree-centrality.cypher[tag=stream-sample-weighted-graph-followers]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and store results, showing which users have the most weighted followers:
[source,cypher]
----
include::scripts/degree-centrality.cypher[tag=write-sample-weighted-graph-followers]
----

// tag::stream-sample-weighted-graph-followers-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name | `weightedFollowers`
| Doug    | 7.5
| Charles | 5.0
| Michael | 4.5
| Bridget | 2.0
| Alice   | 0.0
| Mark    | 0.0
|===
// end::stream-sample-weighted-graph-followers-result[]

// tag::stream-sample-weighted-graph-explanation[]
Doug still remains our most popular user, but there isn't such a big gap to the next person.
Charles and Michael both only have one follower, but those relationships have a high relationship weight.
// end::stream-sample-weighted-graph-explanation[]


[[algorithms-degree-hgp]]
== Huge graph projection

include::huge-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'huge'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/degree-centrality.cypher[tag=huge-projection]
----


[[algorithms-degree-cp]]
== Cypher projection

include::projected-graph-model/cypher-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'cypher'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/degree-centrality.cypher[tag=cypher-loading]
----

Note that the `direction` config parameter is ignored when using a Cypher projection for Degree Centrality.
If we want to find the number of users that a user is following rather than their number of followers, we need to handle that in our Cypher query.

.The following will run the algorithm and store the results, calculating the number of users that a user follows:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/degree-centrality.cypher[tag=cypher-loading-following]
----


[[algorithms-degree-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.degree(label:String, relationship:String,
    {write: true, writeProperty:'degree', concurrency:4})
YIELD nodes, loadMillis, computeMillis, writeMillis, write, writeProperty
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name          | Type    | Default        | Optional | Description
| label         | string  | null           | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes.
| relationship  | string  | null           | yes      | The relationship-type to load from the graph. If null, load all relationships.
| direction | string | incoming | yes | The relationship direction to load from the graph. If 'both', treats the relationships as undirected.
| iterations    | int     | 20             | yes      | How many iterations of PageRank to run.
| concurrency   | int     | available CPUs | yes      | The number of concurrent threads.
| dampingFactor | float   | 0.85           | yes      | The damping factor of the PageRank calculation.
| weightProperty | string | null           | yes      | The property name that contains weight. If null, treats the graph as unweighted. Must be numeric.
| defaultValue   | float  | 0.0            | yes      | The default value of the weight in case it is missing or invalid.
| write         | boolean | true           | yes      | Specify if the result should be written back as a node property.
| graph         | string  | 'huge'         | yes      | Use 'huge' when describing the subset of the graph with label and relationship-type parameter. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset with cypher node-statement and relationship-statement.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name          | Type    | Description
| nodes         | int     | The number of nodes considered.
| writeProperty | string  | The property name written back to.
| write         | boolean | Specifies if the result was written back as node property.
| loadMillis    | int     | Milliseconds for loading data.
| computeMillis | int     | Milliseconds for running the algorithm.
| writeMillis   | int     | Milliseconds for writing result data back.
|===

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.degree.stream(label:String, relationship:String,
    {concurrency:4})
YIELD node, score
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name          | Type   | Default        | Optional | Description
| label         | string | null           | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes.
| relationship  | string | null           | yes      | The relationship-type to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes.
| direction | string | incoming | yes | The relationship direction to load from the graph. If 'both', treats the relationships as undirected.
| concurrency   | int    | available CPUs | yes      | The number of concurrent threads.
| weightProperty | string | null          | yes      | The property name that contains weight. If null, treats the graph as unweighted. Must be numeric.
| defaultValue   | float  | 0.0           | yes      | The default value of the weight in case it is missing or invalid.
| graph         | string | 'huge'         | yes      | Use 'huge' when describing the subset of the graph with label and relationship-type parameter. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset with cypher node-statement and relationship-statement.
|===

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Name  | Type  | Description
| nodeId  | long  | Node ID
| score | float | Degree Centrality score
|===

Commit message:

Add read/write concurrency to docs
Wherever there is a concurrency entry, add readConcurrency and
writeConcurrency.

doc/asciidoc/degree-centrality.adoc, after:

[[algorithms-degree-centrality]]
= The Degree Centrality algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Degree Centrality algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

// tag::introduction[]
Degree centrality measures the number of incoming and outgoing relationships from a node.

The Degree Centrality algorithm can help us find popular nodes in a graph.
// end::introduction[]

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-degree-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-degree-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the Degree Centrality algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-degree-sample, Degree Centrality algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithms-degree-weighted-sample, Weighted Degree Centrality algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithms-degree-hgp, Huge graph projection>>
* <<algorithms-degree-cp, Cypher projection>>
* <<algorithms-degree-syntax, Syntax>>


[[algorithms-degree-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]
Degree Centrality was proposed by Linton C. Freeman in his 1979 paper http://leonidzhukov.net/hse/2014/socialnetworks/papers/freeman79-centrality.pdf[Centrality in Social Networks Conceptual Clarification^].
While the Degree Centrality algorithm can be used to find the popularity of individual nodes, it is often used as part of a global analysis where we calculate the minimum degree, maximum degree, mean degree, and standard deviation across the whole graph.

// end::explanation[]


[[algorithms-degree-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the Degree Centrality algorithm


// tag::use-case[]

* Degree centrality is an important component of any attempt to determine the most important people on a social network.
For example, in BrandWatch's https://www.brandwatch.com/blog/react-influential-men-and-women-2017/[most influential men and women on Twitter 2017^] the top 5 people in each category have over 40m followers each.

* Weighted degree centrality has been used to help separate fraudsters from legitimate users of an online auction.
The weighted centrality for fraudsters is significantly higher because they tend to collude with each other to artificially increase the price of items.
Read more in https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-23461-8_11[Two Step graph-based semi-supervised Learning for Online Auction Fraud Detection^]

// end::use-case[]


[[algorithms-degree-sample]]
== Degree Centrality algorithm sample

This sample will explain the Degree Centrality algorithm, using a simple graph:

.Create sample graph
[source,cypher]
----
include::scripts/degree-centrality.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results, showing which users have the most followers:
[source,cypher]
----
include::scripts/degree-centrality.cypher[tag=stream-sample-graph-followers]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and store results, showing which users have the most followers:
[source,cypher]
----
include::scripts/degree-centrality.cypher[tag=write-sample-graph-followers]
----

// tag::stream-sample-graph-followers-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name | Followers
| Doug    | 5.0
| Bridget | 1.0
| Charles | 1.0
| Michael | 1.0
| Mark    | 0.0
| Alice   | 0.0
|===
// end::stream-sample-graph-followers-result[]

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results, showing which users follow the most other users:
[source,cypher]
----
include::scripts/degree-centrality.cypher[tag=stream-sample-graph-following]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and store results, showing which users follow the most other users:
[source,cypher]
----
include::scripts/degree-centrality.cypher[tag=write-sample-graph-following]
----

// tag::stream-sample-graph-following-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name | Following
| Alice   | 3.0
| Mark    | 2.0
| Bridget | 1.0
| Charles | 1.0
| Michael | 1.0
| Doug    | 0.0
|===
// end::stream-sample-graph-following-result[]

// tag::stream-sample-graph-explanation[]

We can see that Doug is the most popular user in our imaginary Twitter graph, with 5 followers - all other users follow him, but he doesn't follow anybody back.
In the real Twitter network celebrities have very high follower counts but tend to follow very few back people.
We could therefore consider Doug a celebrity!

// end::stream-sample-graph-explanation[]


[[algorithms-degree-weighted-sample]]
== Weighted Degree Centrality algorithm sample

This sample will explain the weighted Degree Centrality algorithm, using a simple graph:


.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/degree-centrality.cypher[tag=create-sample-weighted-graph]
----

This algorithm is a variant of the Degree Centrality algorithm, that measures the sum of the weights of incoming and outgoing relationships.

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results, showing which users have the most weighted followers:
[source,cypher]
----
include::scripts/degree-centrality.cypher[tag=stream-sample-weighted-graph-followers]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and store results, showing which users have the most weighted followers:
[source,cypher]
----
include::scripts/degree-centrality.cypher[tag=write-sample-weighted-graph-followers]
----

// tag::stream-sample-weighted-graph-followers-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name | `weightedFollowers`
| Doug    | 7.5
| Charles | 5.0
| Michael | 4.5
| Bridget | 2.0
| Alice   | 0.0
| Mark    | 0.0
|===
// end::stream-sample-weighted-graph-followers-result[]

// tag::stream-sample-weighted-graph-explanation[]
Doug still remains our most popular user, but there isn't such a big gap to the next person.
Charles and Michael both only have one follower, but those relationships have a high relationship weight.
// end::stream-sample-weighted-graph-explanation[]


[[algorithms-degree-hgp]]
== Huge graph projection

include::huge-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'huge'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/degree-centrality.cypher[tag=huge-projection]
----


[[algorithms-degree-cp]]
== Cypher projection

include::projected-graph-model/cypher-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'cypher'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/degree-centrality.cypher[tag=cypher-loading]
----

Note that the `direction` config parameter is ignored when using a Cypher projection for Degree Centrality.
If we want to find the number of users that a user is following rather than their number of followers, we need to handle that in our Cypher query.

.The following will run the algorithm and store the results, calculating the number of users that a user follows:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/degree-centrality.cypher[tag=cypher-loading-following]
----


[[algorithms-degree-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.degree(label:String, relationship:String,
    {write: true, writeProperty:'degree', concurrency:4})
YIELD nodes, loadMillis, computeMillis, writeMillis, write, writeProperty
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name             | Type    | Default                | Optional | Description
| label            | string  | null                   | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes.
| relationship     | string  | null                   | yes      | The relationship-type to load from the graph. If null, load all relationships.
| direction        | string  | incoming               | yes      | The relationship direction to load from the graph. If 'both', treats the relationships as undirected.
| iterations       | int     | 20                     | yes      | How many iterations of PageRank to run.
| concurrency      | int     | available CPUs         | yes      | The number of concurrent threads
| readConcurrency  | int     | value of `concurrency` | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for reading the graph.
| writeConcurrency | int     | value of `concurrency` | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for writing the result.
| dampingFactor    | float   | 0.85                   | yes      | The damping factor of the PageRank calculation.
| weightProperty   | string  | null                   | yes      | The property name that contains weight. If null, treats the graph as unweighted. Must be numeric.
| defaultValue     | float   | 0.0                    | yes      | The default value of the weight in case it is missing or invalid.
| write            | boolean | true                   | yes      | Specify if the result should be written back as a node property.
| graph            | string  | 'huge'                 | yes      | Use 'huge' when describing the subset of the graph with label and relationship-type parameter. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset with cypher node-statement and relationship-statement.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name          | Type    | Description
| nodes         | int     | The number of nodes considered.
| writeProperty | string  | The property name written back to.
| write         | boolean | Specifies if the result was written back as node property.
| loadMillis    | int     | Milliseconds for loading data.
| computeMillis | int     | Milliseconds for running the algorithm.
| writeMillis   | int     | Milliseconds for writing result data back.
|===

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.degree.stream(label:String, relationship:String,
    {concurrency:4})
YIELD node, score
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name             | Type   | Default                | Optional | Description
| label            | string | null                   | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes.
| relationship     | string | null                   | yes      | The relationship-type to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes.
| direction        | string | incoming               | yes      | The relationship direction to load from the graph. If 'both', treats the relationships as undirected.
| concurrency      | int    | available CPUs         | yes      | The number of concurrent threads
| readConcurrency  | int    | value of `concurrency` | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for reading the graph.
| writeConcurrency | int    | value of `concurrency` | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for writing the result.
| weightProperty   | string | null                   | yes      | The property name that contains weight. If null, treats the graph as unweighted. Must be numeric.
| defaultValue     | float  | 0.0                    | yes      | The default value of the weight in case it is missing or invalid.
| graph            | string | 'huge'                 | yes      | Use 'huge' when describing the subset of the graph with label and relationship-type parameter. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset with cypher node-statement and relationship-statement.
|===

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Name  | Type  | Description
| nodeId  | long  | Node ID
| score | float | Degree Centrality score
|===
