doc/asciidoc/experimental-articlerank.adoc, before:

[[experimental-algorithms-articlerank]]
= The ArticleRank algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the ArticleRank algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

ArticleRank is a variant of the <<algorithms-pagerank, PageRank algorithm>>, which measures the *transitive* influence or connectivity of nodes.

[WARNING]
--
The ArticleRank algorithm is experimental and not officially supported.
--

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-articlerank-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-articlerank-sample, ArticleRank algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithms-articlerank-hgp, Huge graph projection>>
* <<algorithms-articlerank-cp, Cypher projection>>
* <<algorithms-articlerank-syntax, Syntax>>
* <<algorithms-articlerank-support, Graph type support>>


[[algorithms-articlerank-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]

Where ArticleRank differs to PageRank is that PageRank assumes that relationships from nodes that have a low out-degree are more important than relationships from nodes with a higher out-degree.
ArticleRank weakens this assumption.
// end::explanation[]

// tag::formula[]
ArticleRank is defined in https://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/abs/10.1108/00012530911005544[ArticleRank: a PageRank‐based alternative to numbers of citations for analysing citation networks^] as follows:

----
AR(A) = (1-d) + d (AR(T1)/(C(T1) + C(AVG)) + ... + AR(Tn)/(C(Tn) + C(AVG))
----

where,

* we assume that a page `A` has pages `T1` to `Tn` which point to it (i.e., are citations).
* `d` is a damping factor which can be set between 0 and 1.
  It is usually set to 0.85.
* `C(A)` is defined as the number of links going out of page `A`.
* `C(AVG)` is defined as the average number of links going out of all pages.
// end::formula[]


[[algorithms-articlerank-sample]]
== ArticleRank algorithm sample

This sample will explain the ArticleRank algorithm, using a simple graph:

image::articlerank.svg[]

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/articlerank.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/articlerank.cypher[tag=stream-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/articlerank.cypher[tag=write-sample-graph]
----

// tag::stream-sample-graph-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name    | ArticleRank
| Paper 0 | 0.34616300000000005
| Paper 1 | 0.319422
| Paper 4 | 0.213733
| Paper 2 | 0.21089400000000003
| Paper 3 | 0.18026850000000003
| Paper 5 | 0.15000000000000002
| Paper 6 | 0.15000000000000002
|===
// end::stream-sample-graph-result[]

// tag::stream-sample-graph-explanation[]
Paper 0 is the most important paper, but it's only the 2nd most cited paper - Paper 1 has more citations.
However, Paper 1 cites Paper 0, which lets us see that it's not only the number of incoming links that is important, but also the importance of the papers behind those links.
Papers 5 and 6 are not cited by any other papers, so their score doesn't increase above the initial score of `1 - dampingFactor`.
// end::stream-sample-graph-explanation[]


[[algorithms-articlerank-hgp]]
== Huge graph projection

include::huge-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'huge'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/articlerank.cypher[tag=huge-projection]
----


[[algorithms-articlerank-cp]]
== Cypher projection

include::projected-graph-model/cypher-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'cypher'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/articlerank.cypher[tag=cypher-loading]
----


[[algorithms-articlerank-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.articleRank(label:String, relationship:String,
    {iterations:20, dampingFactor:0.85, write: true, writeProperty:'pagerank', concurrency:4})
YIELD nodes, iterations, loadMillis, computeMillis, writeMillis, dampingFactor, write, writeProperty
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name          | Type    | Default        | Optional | Description
| label         | string  | null           | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| relationship  | string  | null           | yes      | The relationship-type to load from the graph. If null, load all relationships
| iterations    | int     | 20             | yes      | How many iterations of PageRank to run
| concurrency   | int     | available CPUs | yes      | The number of concurrent threads
| dampingFactor | float   | 0.85           | yes      | The damping factor of the PageRank calculation
| weightProperty | string | null           | yes      | The property name that contains weight. If null, treats the graph as unweighted. Must be numeric.
| defaultValue   | float  | 0.0            | yes      | The default value of the weight in case it is missing or invalid
| write         | boolean | true           | yes      | Specify if the result should be written back as a node property
| graph         | string  | 'huge'         | yes      | Use 'huge' when describing the subset of the graph with label and relationship-type parameter. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset with cypher node-statement and relationship-statement
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name          | Type    | Description
| nodes         | int     | The number of nodes considered
| iterations    | int     | The number of iterations run
| dampingFactor | float   | The damping factor used
| writeProperty | string  | The property name written back to
| write         | boolean | Specifies if the result was written back as node property
| loadMillis    | int     | Milliseconds for loading data
| computeMillis | int     | Milliseconds for running the algorithm
| writeMillis   | int     | Milliseconds for writing result data back
|===

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.articleRank.stream(label:String, relationship:String,
    {iterations:20, dampingFactor:0.85, concurrency:4})
YIELD node, score
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name          | Type   | Default        | Optional | Description
| label         | string | null           | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| relationship  | string | null           | yes      | The relationship-type to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| iterations    | int    | 20             | yes      | Specify how many iterations of PageRank to run
| concurrency   | int    | available CPUs | yes      | The number of concurrent threads
| dampingFactor | float  | 0.85           | yes      | The damping factor of the PageRank calculation
| weightProperty | string | null          | yes      | The property name that contains weight. If null, treats the graph as unweighted. Must be numeric.
| defaultValue   | float  | 0.0           | yes      | The default value of the weight in case it is missing or invalid
| graph         | string | 'huge'         | yes      | Use 'huge' when describing the subset of the graph with label and relationship-type parameter. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset with cypher node-statement and relationship-statement
|===

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Name  | Type  | Description
| node  | long  | Node ID
| score | float | PageRank weight
|===


[[algorithms-articlerank-support]]
== Graph type support

The ArticleRank algorithm supports the following graph types:

* [x] directed, unweighted

* [x] undirected, unweighted

Commit message:

Add read/write concurrency to docs
Wherever there is a concurrency entry, add readConcurrency and
writeConcurrency.

doc/asciidoc/experimental-articlerank.adoc, after:

[[experimental-algorithms-articlerank]]
= The ArticleRank algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the ArticleRank algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

ArticleRank is a variant of the <<algorithms-pagerank, PageRank algorithm>>, which measures the *transitive* influence or connectivity of nodes.

[WARNING]
--
The ArticleRank algorithm is experimental and not officially supported.
--

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-articlerank-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-articlerank-sample, ArticleRank algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithms-articlerank-hgp, Huge graph projection>>
* <<algorithms-articlerank-cp, Cypher projection>>
* <<algorithms-articlerank-syntax, Syntax>>
* <<algorithms-articlerank-support, Graph type support>>


[[algorithms-articlerank-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]

Where ArticleRank differs to PageRank is that PageRank assumes that relationships from nodes that have a low out-degree are more important than relationships from nodes with a higher out-degree.
ArticleRank weakens this assumption.
// end::explanation[]

// tag::formula[]
ArticleRank is defined in https://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/abs/10.1108/00012530911005544[ArticleRank: a PageRank‐based alternative to numbers of citations for analysing citation networks^] as follows:

----
AR(A) = (1-d) + d (AR(T1)/(C(T1) + C(AVG)) + ... + AR(Tn)/(C(Tn) + C(AVG))
----

where,

* we assume that a page `A` has pages `T1` to `Tn` which point to it (i.e., are citations).
* `d` is a damping factor which can be set between 0 and 1.
  It is usually set to 0.85.
* `C(A)` is defined as the number of links going out of page `A`.
* `C(AVG)` is defined as the average number of links going out of all pages.
// end::formula[]


[[algorithms-articlerank-sample]]
== ArticleRank algorithm sample

This sample will explain the ArticleRank algorithm, using a simple graph:

image::articlerank.svg[]

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/articlerank.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/articlerank.cypher[tag=stream-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/articlerank.cypher[tag=write-sample-graph]
----

// tag::stream-sample-graph-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name    | ArticleRank
| Paper 0 | 0.34616300000000005
| Paper 1 | 0.319422
| Paper 4 | 0.213733
| Paper 2 | 0.21089400000000003
| Paper 3 | 0.18026850000000003
| Paper 5 | 0.15000000000000002
| Paper 6 | 0.15000000000000002
|===
// end::stream-sample-graph-result[]

// tag::stream-sample-graph-explanation[]
Paper 0 is the most important paper, but it's only the 2nd most cited paper - Paper 1 has more citations.
However, Paper 1 cites Paper 0, which lets us see that it's not only the number of incoming links that is important, but also the importance of the papers behind those links.
Papers 5 and 6 are not cited by any other papers, so their score doesn't increase above the initial score of `1 - dampingFactor`.
// end::stream-sample-graph-explanation[]


[[algorithms-articlerank-hgp]]
== Huge graph projection

include::huge-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'huge'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/articlerank.cypher[tag=huge-projection]
----


[[algorithms-articlerank-cp]]
== Cypher projection

include::projected-graph-model/cypher-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'cypher'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/articlerank.cypher[tag=cypher-loading]
----


[[algorithms-articlerank-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.articleRank(label:String, relationship:String,
    {iterations:20, dampingFactor:0.85, write: true, writeProperty:'pagerank', concurrency:4})
YIELD nodes, iterations, loadMillis, computeMillis, writeMillis, dampingFactor, write, writeProperty
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name             | Type    | Default                | Optional | Description
| label            | string  | null                   | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| relationship     | string  | null                   | yes      | The relationship-type to load from the graph. If null, load all relationships
| iterations       | int     | 20                     | yes      | How many iterations of PageRank to run
| concurrency      | int     | available CPUs         | yes      | The number of concurrent threads
| readConcurrency  | int     | value of `concurrency` | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for reading the graph.
| writeConcurrency | int     | value of `concurrency` | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for writing the result.
| dampingFactor    | float   | 0.85                   | yes      | The damping factor of the PageRank calculation
| weightProperty   | string  | null                   | yes      | The property name that contains weight. If null, treats the graph as unweighted. Must be numeric.
| defaultValue     | float   | 0.0                    | yes      | The default value of the weight in case it is missing or invalid
| write            | boolean | true                   | yes      | Specify if the result should be written back as a node property
| graph            | string  | 'huge'                 | yes      | Use 'huge' when describing the subset of the graph with label and relationship-type parameter. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset with cypher node-statement and relationship-statement
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name          | Type    | Description
| nodes         | int     | The number of nodes considered
| iterations    | int     | The number of iterations run
| dampingFactor | float   | The damping factor used
| writeProperty | string  | The property name written back to
| write         | boolean | Specifies if the result was written back as node property
| loadMillis    | int     | Milliseconds for loading data
| computeMillis | int     | Milliseconds for running the algorithm
| writeMillis   | int     | Milliseconds for writing result data back
|===

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.articleRank.stream(label:String, relationship:String,
    {iterations:20, dampingFactor:0.85, concurrency:4})
YIELD node, score
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name             | Type   | Default                | Optional | Description
| label            | string | null                   | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| relationship     | string | null                   | yes      | The relationship-type to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| iterations       | int    | 20                     | yes      | Specify how many iterations of PageRank to run
| concurrency      | int    | available CPUs         | yes      | The number of concurrent threads
| readConcurrency  | int    | value of `concurrency` | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for reading the graph.
| writeConcurrency | int    | value of `concurrency` | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for writing the result.
| dampingFactor    | float  | 0.85                   | yes      | The damping factor of the PageRank calculation
| weightProperty   | string | null                   | yes      | The property name that contains weight. If null, treats the graph as unweighted. Must be numeric.
| defaultValue     | float  | 0.0                    | yes      | The default value of the weight in case it is missing or invalid
| graph            | string | 'huge'                 | yes      | Use 'huge' when describing the subset of the graph with label and relationship-type parameter. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset with cypher node-statement and relationship-statement
|===

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Name  | Type  | Description
| node  | long  | Node ID
| score | float | PageRank weight
|===


[[algorithms-articlerank-support]]
== Graph type support

The ArticleRank algorithm supports the following graph types:

* [x] directed, unweighted

* [x] undirected, unweighted
