doc/asciidoc/experimental-linkprediction-resource-allocation.adoc, before:

[[experimental-algorithms-linkprediction-resource-allocation]]
= The Resource Allocation algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Resource Allocation algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

// tag::introduction[]
link:https://arxiv.org/pdf/0901.0553.pdf[Resource Allocation] is a measure used to compute the closeness of nodes based on their shared neighbors.
// end::introduction[]

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-linkprediction-resource-allocation-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-linkprediction-resource-allocation-sample, Resource Allocation algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithms-linkprediction-resource-allocation-syntax, Syntax>>


[[algorithms-linkprediction-resource-allocation-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]

The Resource Allocation  algorithm was introduced in 2009 by Tao Zhou, Linyuan Lü, and Yi-Cheng Zhang as part of a study to predict links in various networks.
It is computed using the following formula:

image::resource-allocation.svg[role="middle"]

where `N(u)` is the set of nodes adjacent to `u`.

A value of 0 indicates that two nodes are not close, while higher values indicate nodes are closer.

The library contains a function to calculate closeness between two nodes.

// end::explanation[]


[[algorithms-linkprediction-resource-allocation-sample]]
== Resource Allocation algorithm sample

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-resource-allocation.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will return the Resource Allocation score for Michael and Karin:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-resource-allocation.cypher[tag=all-rels]
----

// tag::function[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `score`
| 0.5
|===
// end::function[]


We can also compute the score of a pair of nodes based on a specific relationship type.

.The following will return the Resource Allocation score for Michael and Karin based only on the `FRIENDS` relationships:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-resource-allocation.cypher[tag=only-friends]
----

// tag::function[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `score`
| 0.0
|===
// end::function[]


[[algorithms-linkprediction-resource-allocation-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and return the result:
[source, cypher]
----
RETURN algo.linkprediction.resourceAllocation(node1:Node, node2:Node, {
    relationshipQuery: null,
    direction: "BOTH"
})
----


.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name                   | Type    | Default        | Optional | Description
| `node1`                   | Node    | null           | no       | A node
| `node2`                   | Node    | null           | no       | Another node
| `relationshipQuery`                   | String    | null           | yes       | The relationship type to use to compute similarity between `node1` and `node2`
| `direction`                   | String    | BOTH           | yes       | The direction of relationship type to use to compute similarity between `node1` and `node2`
|===

Commit message:

Add admonitions for all experimental algorithms

doc/asciidoc/experimental-linkprediction-resource-allocation.adoc, after:

[[experimental-algorithms-linkprediction-resource-allocation]]
= The Resource Allocation algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Resource Allocation algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

link:https://arxiv.org/pdf/0901.0553.pdf[Resource Allocation] is a measure used to compute the closeness of nodes based on their shared neighbors.

[WARNING]
--
The Resource Allocation algorithm is experimental and not officially supported.
--

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-linkprediction-resource-allocation-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-linkprediction-resource-allocation-sample, Resource Allocation algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithms-linkprediction-resource-allocation-syntax, Syntax>>


[[algorithms-linkprediction-resource-allocation-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]

The Resource Allocation  algorithm was introduced in 2009 by Tao Zhou, Linyuan Lü, and Yi-Cheng Zhang as part of a study to predict links in various networks.
It is computed using the following formula:

image::resource-allocation.svg[role="middle"]

where `N(u)` is the set of nodes adjacent to `u`.

A value of 0 indicates that two nodes are not close, while higher values indicate nodes are closer.

The library contains a function to calculate closeness between two nodes.

// end::explanation[]


[[algorithms-linkprediction-resource-allocation-sample]]
== Resource Allocation algorithm sample

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-resource-allocation.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will return the Resource Allocation score for Michael and Karin:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-resource-allocation.cypher[tag=all-rels]
----

// tag::function[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `score`
| 0.5
|===
// end::function[]


We can also compute the score of a pair of nodes based on a specific relationship type.

.The following will return the Resource Allocation score for Michael and Karin based only on the `FRIENDS` relationships:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-resource-allocation.cypher[tag=only-friends]
----

// tag::function[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `score`
| 0.0
|===
// end::function[]


[[algorithms-linkprediction-resource-allocation-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and return the result:
[source, cypher]
----
RETURN algo.linkprediction.resourceAllocation(node1:Node, node2:Node, {
    relationshipQuery: null,
    direction: "BOTH"
})
----


.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name                   | Type    | Default        | Optional | Description
| `node1`                   | Node    | null           | no       | A node
| `node2`                   | Node    | null           | no       | Another node
| `relationshipQuery`                   | String    | null           | yes       | The relationship type to use to compute similarity between `node1` and `node2`
| `direction`                   | String    | BOTH           | yes       | The direction of relationship type to use to compute similarity between `node1` and `node2`
|===
