doc/asciidoc/experimental-single-shortest-path.adoc, before:

[[experimental-algorithms-single-source-shortest-path]]
= The Single Source Shortest Path algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Single Source Shortest Path algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

// tag::introduction[]
The Single Source Shortest Path (SSSP) algorithm calculates the shortest (weighted) path from a node to all other nodes in the graph.
// end::introduction[]

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the Single Source Shortest Path algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-limitations, Constraints - when not to use the Single Source Shortest Path algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-sample, Single Source Shortest Path algorithm sample>>
** <<algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-delta, Delta stepping algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-cp, Cypher projection>>
* <<algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-syntax, Syntax>>
* <<algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-support, Graph type support>>
* <<algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-imp, Implementations>>


[[algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]
SSSP came into prominence at the same time as the shortest path algorithm and Dijkstra's algorithm can act as an implementation for both problems.

We implement a delta-stepping algorithm that has been https://arxiv.org/pdf/1604.02113v1.pdf[shown to outperform Dijkstra's^].
// end::explanation[]


[[algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the Single Source Shortest Path algorithm

// tag::use-case[]
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_Shortest_Path_First[Open Shortest Path First^] is a routing protocol for IP networks.
  It uses Dijkstra's algorithm to help detect changes in topology, such as link failures, and https://routing-bits.com/2009/08/06/ospf-convergence/[come up with a new routing structure in seconds^].
// end::use-case[]


[[algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-limitations]]
== Constraints - when not to use the Single Source Shortest Path algorithm

// tag::constraint[]
Delta stepping does not support negative weights.
The algorithm assumes that adding a relationship to a path can never make a path shorter - an invariant that would be violated with negative weights.
// end::constraint[]


[[algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-sample]]
== Single Source Shortest Path algorithm sample

image::sssp.png[]

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----


[[algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-delta]]
=== Delta stepping algorithm

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=delta-stream-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=delta-write-sample-graph]
----


// tag::delta-stream-sample-graph-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name | Cost
| A    | 0
| B    | 50
| C    | 50
| D    | 90
| E    | 120
| F    | 160
|===

// end::delta-stream-sample-graph-result[]

// tag::delta-stream-sample-graph-explanation[]
The above table shows the cost of going from A to each of the other nodes, including itself at a cost of 0.
// end::delta-stream-sample-graph-explanation[]


[[algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-cp]]
== Cypher projection

include::projected-graph-model/cypher-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'cypher'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=cypher-loading]
----


[[algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.shortestPath.deltaStepping(startNode:Node, weightProperty:String, delta:Float,
    {defaultValue:1.0, write:true, writeProperty:'sssp'})
YIELD nodeCount, loadDuration, evalDuration, writeDuration
RETURN nodeCount, loadDuration, evalDuration, writeDuration
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name              | Type    | Default  | Optional | Description
| startNode         | node    | null     | no       | The start node
| weightProperty    | string  | null     | yes      | The property name that contains weight. If null, treats the graph as unweighted. Must be numeric.
| delta             | float   | null     | yes      | The grade of concurrency to use.
| write             | boolean | true     | yes      | Specifies if the result should be written back as a node property
| writeProperty     | string  | 'sssp'   | yes      | The property name written back to the node sequence of the node in the path
| nodeQuery         | string  | null     | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| relationshipQuery | string  | null     | yes      | The relationship-type to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| direction         | string  | outgoing | yes      | The relationship direction to load from the graph. If 'both', treats the relationships as undirected
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name        | Type  | Description
| nodeCount   | int   | The number of nodes considered
| totalCost   | float | The sum of all weights along the path
| loadMillis  | int   | Milliseconds for loading data
| evalMillis  | int   | Milliseconds for running the algorithm
| writeMillis | int   | Milliseconds for writing result data back
|===


.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.shortestPath.deltaStepping.stream(startNode:Node, weightProperty:String, delta: Float,
    {nodeQuery:'labelName', relationshipQuery:'relationshipName', defaultValue:1.0, direction:'OUTGOING'})
YIELD nodeId, cost
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name              | Type   | Default  | Optional | Description
| startNode         | node   | null     | no       | The start node
| weightProperty    | string | null     | yes      | The property name that contains weight. If null, treats the graph as unweighted. Must be numeric.
| delta             | float  | null     | yes      | The grade of concurrency to use.
| nodeQuery         | string | null     | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| relationshipQuery | string | null     | yes      | The relationship-type to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| defaultValue      | float  | null     | yes      | The default value of the weight in case it is missing or invalid
| direction         | string | outgoing | yes      | The relationship direction to load from the graph. If 'both', treats the relationships as undirected
|===

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Name   | Type | Description
| nodeId | int  | Node ID
| cost   | int  | The cost it takes to get from start node to specific node
|===


[[algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-support]]
== Graph type support

The shortest path algorithms support the following graph types:

* [x] directed, unweighted:
** direction: 'OUTGOING' or INCOMING, weightProperty: null
* [x] directed, weighted
** direction: 'OUTGOING' or INCOMING, weightProperty: 'cost'
* [x] undirected, unweighted
** direction: 'BOTH', weightProperty: null
* [x] undirected, weighted
** direction: 'BOTH', weightProperty: 'cost'


[[algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-imp]]
== Implementations

`algo.shortestPath.deltaStepping`

* Specify start node, find the shortest paths to all other nodes.
* Parallel non-negative single source shortest path algorithm for weighted graphs.
* It can be tweaked using the delta-parameter which controls the grade of concurrency.
* If initialized with an non-existing weight-property, it will treat the graph as unweighted.


ifndef::env-docs[]
== References

// tag::references[]
* [1] http://onlinepubs.trb.org/Onlinepubs/hrbbulletin/61/61-003.pdf[Effect of travel time and distance on freeway usage^]
* http://www.math.uiuc.edu/documenta/vol-ismp/32_schrijver-alexander-sp.pdf
* http://www.math.ias.edu/~pooyahat/Dijkstra.pdf
* https://arxiv.org/pdf/1604.02113v1.pdf
* https://www.cc.gatech.edu/~bader/papers/ShortestPaths-ALENEX2007.pdf
// end::references[]
endif::env-docs[]

ifdef::implementation[]
// tag::implementation[]


== Implementation details

:leveloffset: +1
// copied from: https://github.com/neo4j-contrib/neo4j-graph-algorithms/issues/80

A Single Source Shortest Path algorithm calculates a path between a pair of nodes whose summed weights are minimal.
A common algorithm used is Dijkstra.
On the other hand, All Pairs Shortest Path calculates a shortest path forest containing all paths between the nodes in the graph.
An algorithm to solve this is Floyd Warshall or Parallel Johnson's algorithm.

## Progress

- [x] single threaded implementation
- [x] tests
- [x] simple benchmark
- [x] implement procedure
- [ ] benchmark on bigger graphs
- [ ] parallelization
- [ ] evaluation

## Requirements

`(Outgoing)RelationshipIterator` & `Weights`

## Data structured involved

- An int-based Fibonacci Heap which implements an efficient priority queue.
- Different Container for Costs / visited state / paths

## ToDo

### benchmark

Implement benchmark on big graph

### parallelization

Parallizing _All Pairs Shortest Path_ might be easy using Dijkstra on each thread for a different node. An easy approach for _Single Source SP_ may use two threads. One starting at the start-node, one at the end-node. The first wins. [More](https://www.cs.rice.edu/~vs3/comp422/lecture-notes/comp422-lec24-s08-v2.pdf)

### evaluation

- Performance tests on different dataset sizes / level of concurrency


== Details


=== algo.shortestPath.deltaStepping

TODO naming!?
- parallel non-negative single source shortest path algorithm for weighted graphs
- It can be tweaked using the delta-parameter which controls the grade of concurrency.
- returns minimum distance to *all other nodes*
- if initialized with an non-existing weight-property and a defaultWeight of 1.0 its result can be interpreted as
 the number of nodes to reach the target

// end::implementation[]
endif::implementation[]

Commit message:

Add admonitions for all experimental algorithms

doc/asciidoc/experimental-single-shortest-path.adoc, after:

[[experimental-algorithms-single-source-shortest-path]]
= The Single Source Shortest Path algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Single Source Shortest Path algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

The Single Source Shortest Path (SSSP) algorithm calculates the shortest (weighted) path from a node to all other nodes in the graph.

[WARNING]
--
The Single Source Shortest Path algorithm is experimental and not officially supported.
--

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the Single Source Shortest Path algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-limitations, Constraints - when not to use the Single Source Shortest Path algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-sample, Single Source Shortest Path algorithm sample>>
** <<algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-delta, Delta stepping algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-cp, Cypher projection>>
* <<algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-syntax, Syntax>>
* <<algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-support, Graph type support>>
* <<algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-imp, Implementations>>


[[algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]
SSSP came into prominence at the same time as the shortest path algorithm and Dijkstra's algorithm can act as an implementation for both problems.

We implement a delta-stepping algorithm that has been https://arxiv.org/pdf/1604.02113v1.pdf[shown to outperform Dijkstra's^].
// end::explanation[]


[[algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the Single Source Shortest Path algorithm

// tag::use-case[]
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_Shortest_Path_First[Open Shortest Path First^] is a routing protocol for IP networks.
  It uses Dijkstra's algorithm to help detect changes in topology, such as link failures, and https://routing-bits.com/2009/08/06/ospf-convergence/[come up with a new routing structure in seconds^].
// end::use-case[]


[[algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-limitations]]
== Constraints - when not to use the Single Source Shortest Path algorithm

// tag::constraint[]
Delta stepping does not support negative weights.
The algorithm assumes that adding a relationship to a path can never make a path shorter - an invariant that would be violated with negative weights.
// end::constraint[]


[[algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-sample]]
== Single Source Shortest Path algorithm sample

image::sssp.png[]

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----


[[algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-delta]]
=== Delta stepping algorithm

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=delta-stream-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=delta-write-sample-graph]
----


// tag::delta-stream-sample-graph-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name | Cost
| A    | 0
| B    | 50
| C    | 50
| D    | 90
| E    | 120
| F    | 160
|===

// end::delta-stream-sample-graph-result[]

// tag::delta-stream-sample-graph-explanation[]
The above table shows the cost of going from A to each of the other nodes, including itself at a cost of 0.
// end::delta-stream-sample-graph-explanation[]


[[algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-cp]]
== Cypher projection

include::projected-graph-model/cypher-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'cypher'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=cypher-loading]
----


[[algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.shortestPath.deltaStepping(startNode:Node, weightProperty:String, delta:Float,
    {defaultValue:1.0, write:true, writeProperty:'sssp'})
YIELD nodeCount, loadDuration, evalDuration, writeDuration
RETURN nodeCount, loadDuration, evalDuration, writeDuration
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name              | Type    | Default  | Optional | Description
| startNode         | node    | null     | no       | The start node
| weightProperty    | string  | null     | yes      | The property name that contains weight. If null, treats the graph as unweighted. Must be numeric.
| delta             | float   | null     | yes      | The grade of concurrency to use.
| write             | boolean | true     | yes      | Specifies if the result should be written back as a node property
| writeProperty     | string  | 'sssp'   | yes      | The property name written back to the node sequence of the node in the path
| nodeQuery         | string  | null     | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| relationshipQuery | string  | null     | yes      | The relationship-type to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| direction         | string  | outgoing | yes      | The relationship direction to load from the graph. If 'both', treats the relationships as undirected
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name        | Type  | Description
| nodeCount   | int   | The number of nodes considered
| totalCost   | float | The sum of all weights along the path
| loadMillis  | int   | Milliseconds for loading data
| evalMillis  | int   | Milliseconds for running the algorithm
| writeMillis | int   | Milliseconds for writing result data back
|===


.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.shortestPath.deltaStepping.stream(startNode:Node, weightProperty:String, delta: Float,
    {nodeQuery:'labelName', relationshipQuery:'relationshipName', defaultValue:1.0, direction:'OUTGOING'})
YIELD nodeId, cost
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name              | Type   | Default  | Optional | Description
| startNode         | node   | null     | no       | The start node
| weightProperty    | string | null     | yes      | The property name that contains weight. If null, treats the graph as unweighted. Must be numeric.
| delta             | float  | null     | yes      | The grade of concurrency to use.
| nodeQuery         | string | null     | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| relationshipQuery | string | null     | yes      | The relationship-type to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| defaultValue      | float  | null     | yes      | The default value of the weight in case it is missing or invalid
| direction         | string | outgoing | yes      | The relationship direction to load from the graph. If 'both', treats the relationships as undirected
|===

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Name   | Type | Description
| nodeId | int  | Node ID
| cost   | int  | The cost it takes to get from start node to specific node
|===


[[algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-support]]
== Graph type support

The shortest path algorithms support the following graph types:

* [x] directed, unweighted:
** direction: 'OUTGOING' or INCOMING, weightProperty: null
* [x] directed, weighted
** direction: 'OUTGOING' or INCOMING, weightProperty: 'cost'
* [x] undirected, unweighted
** direction: 'BOTH', weightProperty: null
* [x] undirected, weighted
** direction: 'BOTH', weightProperty: 'cost'


[[algorithms-single-source-shortest-path-imp]]
== Implementations

`algo.shortestPath.deltaStepping`

* Specify start node, find the shortest paths to all other nodes.
* Parallel non-negative single source shortest path algorithm for weighted graphs.
* It can be tweaked using the delta-parameter which controls the grade of concurrency.
* If initialized with an non-existing weight-property, it will treat the graph as unweighted.


ifndef::env-docs[]
== References

// tag::references[]
* [1] http://onlinepubs.trb.org/Onlinepubs/hrbbulletin/61/61-003.pdf[Effect of travel time and distance on freeway usage^]
* http://www.math.uiuc.edu/documenta/vol-ismp/32_schrijver-alexander-sp.pdf
* http://www.math.ias.edu/~pooyahat/Dijkstra.pdf
* https://arxiv.org/pdf/1604.02113v1.pdf
* https://www.cc.gatech.edu/~bader/papers/ShortestPaths-ALENEX2007.pdf
// end::references[]
endif::env-docs[]

ifdef::implementation[]
// tag::implementation[]


== Implementation details

:leveloffset: +1
// copied from: https://github.com/neo4j-contrib/neo4j-graph-algorithms/issues/80

A Single Source Shortest Path algorithm calculates a path between a pair of nodes whose summed weights are minimal.
A common algorithm used is Dijkstra.
On the other hand, All Pairs Shortest Path calculates a shortest path forest containing all paths between the nodes in the graph.
An algorithm to solve this is Floyd Warshall or Parallel Johnson's algorithm.

## Progress

- [x] single threaded implementation
- [x] tests
- [x] simple benchmark
- [x] implement procedure
- [ ] benchmark on bigger graphs
- [ ] parallelization
- [ ] evaluation

## Requirements

`(Outgoing)RelationshipIterator` & `Weights`

## Data structured involved

- An int-based Fibonacci Heap which implements an efficient priority queue.
- Different Container for Costs / visited state / paths

## ToDo

### benchmark

Implement benchmark on big graph

### parallelization

Parallizing _All Pairs Shortest Path_ might be easy using Dijkstra on each thread for a different node. An easy approach for _Single Source SP_ may use two threads. One starting at the start-node, one at the end-node. The first wins. [More](https://www.cs.rice.edu/~vs3/comp422/lecture-notes/comp422-lec24-s08-v2.pdf)

### evaluation

- Performance tests on different dataset sizes / level of concurrency


== Details


=== algo.shortestPath.deltaStepping

TODO naming!?
- parallel non-negative single source shortest path algorithm for weighted graphs
- It can be tweaked using the delta-parameter which controls the grade of concurrency.
- returns minimum distance to *all other nodes*
- if initialized with an non-existing weight-property and a defaultWeight of 1.0 its result can be interpreted as
 the number of nodes to reach the target

// end::implementation[]
endif::implementation[]
