doc/asciidoc/experimental-linkprediction-preferential-attachment.adoc, before:

[[experimental-algorithms-linkprediction-preferential-attachment]]
= The Preferential Attachment algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Preferential Attachment algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

// tag::introduction[]
Preferential Attachment is a measure used to compute the closeness of nodes, based on their shared neighbors.
// end::introduction[]

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-linkprediction-preferential-attachment-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-linkprediction-preferential-attachment-sample, Preferential Attachment algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithms-linkprediction-preferential-attachment-syntax, Syntax>>


[[algorithms-linkprediction-preferential-attachment-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]

Preferential attachment means that the more connected a node is, the more likely it is to receive new links.
This algorithm was popularised by https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barab%C3%A1si%E2%80%93Albert_model[Albert-László Barabási and Réka Albert^] through their work on scale-free networks.
It is computed using the following formula:

image::preferential-attachment.svg[role="middle"]

where `N(u)` is the set of nodes adjacent to `u`.

A value of 0 indicates that two nodes are not close, while higher values indicate that nodes are closer.

The library contains a function to calculate closeness between two nodes.

// end::explanation[]


[[algorithms-linkprediction-preferential-attachment-sample]]
== Preferential Attachment algorithm sample

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-preferential-attachment.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will return the Preferential Attachment score for Michael and Karin:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-preferential-attachment.cypher[tag=all-rels]
----

// tag::function[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `score`
| 6.0
|===
// end::function[]


We can also compute the score of a pair of nodes based on a specific relationship type.

.The following will return the Preferential Attachment score for Michael and Karin based only on the `FRIENDS` relationship:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-preferential-attachment.cypher[tag=only-friends]
----

// tag::function[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `score`
| 1.0
|===
// end::function[]


[[algorithms-linkprediction-preferential-attachment-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and return the result:
[source, cypher]
----
RETURN algo.linkprediction.preferentialAttachment(node1:Node, node2:Node, {
    relationshipQuery: null,
    direction: "BOTH"
})
----


.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name                   | Type    | Default        | Optional | Description
| `node1`                   | Node    | null           | no       | A node
| `node2`                   | Node    | null           | no       | Another node
| `relationshipQuery`                   | String    | null           | yes       | The relationship type used to compute similarity between `node1` and `node2`
| `direction`                   | String    | BOTH           | yes       | The direction of relationship type used to compute similarity between `node1` and `node2`
|===

Commit message:

Add admonitions for all experimental algorithms

doc/asciidoc/experimental-linkprediction-preferential-attachment.adoc, after:

[[experimental-algorithms-linkprediction-preferential-attachment]]
= The Preferential Attachment algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Preferential Attachment algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

Preferential Attachment is a measure used to compute the closeness of nodes, based on their shared neighbors.

[WARNING]
--
The Preferential Attachment algorithm is experimental and not officially supported.
--

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-linkprediction-preferential-attachment-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-linkprediction-preferential-attachment-sample, Preferential Attachment algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithms-linkprediction-preferential-attachment-syntax, Syntax>>


[[algorithms-linkprediction-preferential-attachment-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]

Preferential attachment means that the more connected a node is, the more likely it is to receive new links.
This algorithm was popularised by https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barab%C3%A1si%E2%80%93Albert_model[Albert-László Barabási and Réka Albert^] through their work on scale-free networks.
It is computed using the following formula:

image::preferential-attachment.svg[role="middle"]

where `N(u)` is the set of nodes adjacent to `u`.

A value of 0 indicates that two nodes are not close, while higher values indicate that nodes are closer.

The library contains a function to calculate closeness between two nodes.

// end::explanation[]


[[algorithms-linkprediction-preferential-attachment-sample]]
== Preferential Attachment algorithm sample

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-preferential-attachment.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will return the Preferential Attachment score for Michael and Karin:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-preferential-attachment.cypher[tag=all-rels]
----

// tag::function[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `score`
| 6.0
|===
// end::function[]


We can also compute the score of a pair of nodes based on a specific relationship type.

.The following will return the Preferential Attachment score for Michael and Karin based only on the `FRIENDS` relationship:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-preferential-attachment.cypher[tag=only-friends]
----

// tag::function[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `score`
| 1.0
|===
// end::function[]


[[algorithms-linkprediction-preferential-attachment-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and return the result:
[source, cypher]
----
RETURN algo.linkprediction.preferentialAttachment(node1:Node, node2:Node, {
    relationshipQuery: null,
    direction: "BOTH"
})
----


.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name                   | Type    | Default        | Optional | Description
| `node1`                   | Node    | null           | no       | A node
| `node2`                   | Node    | null           | no       | Another node
| `relationshipQuery`                   | String    | null           | yes       | The relationship type used to compute similarity between `node1` and `node2`
| `direction`                   | String    | BOTH           | yes       | The direction of relationship type used to compute similarity between `node1` and `node2`
|===
