doc/asciidoc/experimental-similarity-overlap.adoc, before:

[[experimental-algorithms-similarity-overlap]]
= The Overlap Similarity algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Overlap Similarity algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Overlap_coefficient[Overlap similarity] measures overlap between two sets.
It is defined as the size of the intersection of two sets, divided by the size of the smaller of the two sets.

[WARNING]
--
The Overlap Similarity algorithm is experimental and not officially supported.
--

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-similarity-overlap-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-overlap-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the Overlap Similarity algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-overlap-function-sample, Overlap Similarity algorithm function sample>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-overlap-procedure-sample, Overlap Similarity algorithm procedures sample>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-overlap-source-target-ids, Specifying source and target ids>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-overlap-syntax, Syntax>>


[[algorithms-similarity-overlap-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]

Overlap similarity is computed using the following formula:

image::overlap.png[role="middle"]

// This is the raw information for this image:
// ```
// O(A,B) = (∣A ∩ B∣) / (min(∣A|,|B|))
// ```

The library contains both procedures and functions to calculate similarity between sets of data.
The function is best used when calculating the similarity between small numbers of sets.
The procedures parallelize the computation, and are therefore more appropriate for computing similarities on bigger datasets.

// end::explanation[]

[[algorithms-similarity-overlap-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the Overlap Similarity algorithm

// tag::use-case[]
We can use the Overlap Similarity algorithm to work out which things are subsets of others.
We might then use these computed subsets to https://jbarrasa.com/2017/03/31/quickgraph5-learning-a-taxonomy-from-your-tagged-data/[learn a taxonomy from tagged data^], as described by Jesús Barrasa.
// end::use-case[]


[[algorithms-similarity-overlap-function-sample]]
== Overlap Similarity algorithm function sample

.The following will return the Overlap similarity of two lists of numbers:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-overlap.cypher[tag=function]
----

// tag::function[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `similarity`
| 0.66
|===
// end::function[]

// tag::function-explanation[]
These two lists of numbers have an overlap similarity of 0.66.
We can see how this result is derived by breaking down the formula:

```
O(A,B) = (∣A ∩ B∣) / (min(∣A|,|B|))
O(A,B) = 2 / min(3,4)
       = 2 / 3
       = 0.66
```
// end::function-explanation[]

[[algorithms-similarity-overlap-procedure-sample]]
== Overlap Similarity algorithm procedures sample

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-overlap.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will return a stream of node pairs, along with their intersection and overlap similarities:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-overlap.cypher[tag=stream]
----

// tag::stream[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`          | `to`                | `count1` | `count2` | `intersection`   | `similarity`
| Fantasy         | Science Fiction | 3      | 4      | 3            | 1.0
| Dystopia        | Science Fiction | 2      | 4      | 2            | 1.0
| Dystopia        | Classics        | 2      | 4      | 2            | 1.0
| Science Fiction | Classics        | 4      | 4      | 3            | 0.75
| Fantasy         | Classics        | 3      | 4      | 2            | 0.66
| Dystopia        | Fantasy         | 2      | 3      | 1            | 0.5
|===
// end::stream[]

Fantasy and Dystopia are both clear subgenres of Science Fiction - 100% of the books that list those as genres also list Science Fiction as a genre.
Dystopia is also a subgenre of Classics.
The others are less obvious; Dystopia probably isn't a subgenre of Fantasy, but the other two pairs could be subgenres.

.The following will return a stream of node pairs that have a similarity of at least 0.75, along with their intersection and overlap similarities:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-overlap.cypher[tag=stream-similarity-cutoff]
----

// tag::stream-similarity-cutoff[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`          | `to`                | `count1` | `count2` | `intersection`   | `similarity`
| Fantasy         | Science Fiction | 3      | 4      | 3            | 1.0
| Dystopia        | Science Fiction | 2      | 4      | 2            | 1.0
| Dystopia        | Classics        | 2      | 4      | 2            | 1.0
| Science Fiction | Classics        | 4      | 4      | 3            | 0.75
|===
// end::stream-similarity-cutoff[]

We can see that those genres with lower similarity have been filtered out.
If we're implementing a k-Nearest Neighbors type query we might instead want to find the most similar `k` super genres for a given genre.
We can do that by passing in the `topK` parameter.

.The following will return a stream of genres, along with the two most similar super genres to them (i.e. `k=2`):
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-overlap.cypher[tag=stream-topk]
----

// tag::stream-topk[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`          | `to`                | `count1` | `count2` | `intersection`   | `similarity`
| Dystopia        | Classics        | 2      | 4      | 2            | 1.0
| Dystopia        | Science Fiction | 2      | 4      | 2            | 1.0
| Fantasy         | Science Fiction | 3      | 4      | 3            | 1.0
| Fantasy         | Classics        | 3      | 4      | 2            | 0.6666666666666666
| Science Fiction | Classics        | 4      | 4      | 3            | 0.75
|===
// end::stream-topk[]

.The following will find the most similar genre for each genre, and store a relationship between those genres:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-overlap.cypher[tag=write-back]
----

// tag::write-back[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `nodes` | `similarityPairs` | `write` | `writeRelationshipType` | `writeProperty` | `min`  | `max`  | `mean` | `p95`
| 4     | 5               | TRUE  | NARROWER_THAN       | score       | 0.6666641235351562 | 1.0000038146972656 | 0.8833351135253906 | 1.0000038146972656
|===
// end::write-back[]

We then could write a query to find out the genre hierarchy for a specific genre.

.The following will find the genre hierarchy for the Fantasy genre
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-overlap.cypher[tag=query]
----

// tag::query[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `hierarchy`
| ["Fantasy", "Science Fiction"]
| ["Fantasy", "Classics"]
| ["Fantasy", "Science Fiction", "Classics"]
|===
// end::query[]

[[algorithms-similarity-overlap-source-target-ids]]
== Specifying source and target ids

include::experimental-similarity.adoc[tag=source-target-ids]

We could use this technique to compute the similarity of a subset of items to all other items.

.The following will return the super genres for the `Fantasy` and `Classics` genres:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-overlap.cypher[tag=source-target-ids]
----

// tag::source-target-ids-2[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1"]
|===
| `from`   | `to`     | `similarity`
| Fantasy  | Science Fiction | 1.0               
| Classics | Science Fiction | 0.75              
| Fantasy  | Classics        | 0.6666666666666666
|===
// end::source-target-ids-2[]

[[algorithms-similarity-overlap-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.similarity.overlap(userData:List<Map>, {
    topK: 1, similarityCutoff: 0.1, write:true, writeProperty: "overlapSimilarity"
})
YIELD nodes, similarityPairs, write, writeRelationshipType, writeProperty, min, max, mean, stdDev, p25, p50, p75, p90, p95, p99, p999, p100
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name                     | Type    | Default        | Optional | Description
| `data`                   | list    | null           | no       | A list of maps of the following structure: `{item: nodeId, categories: [nodeId, nodeId, nodeId]}`
| `top`                    | int     | 0              | yes      | The number of similar pairs to return. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `topK`                   | int     | 0              | yes      | The number of similar values to return per node. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `similarityCutoff`       | int     | -1             | yes      | The threshold for Overlap similarity. Values below this will not be returned.
| `degreeCutoff`           | int     | 0              | yes      | The threshold for the number of items in the `targets` list. If the list contains less than this amount, that node will be excluded from the calculation.
| `concurrency`            | int     | available CPUs | yes      | The number of concurrent threads.
| `write`                  | boolean | false          | yes      | Indicates whether results should be stored.
| `writeRelationshipType`  | string  | NARROWER_THAN        | yes      | The relationship type to use when storing results.
| `writeProperty`          | string  | score          | yes      | The property to use when storing results.
| `sourceIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items from which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `targetIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items to which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.

|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name                    | Type    | Description
| `nodes`                 | int     | The number of nodes passed in.
| `similarityPairs`       | int     | The number of pairs of similar nodes computed.
| `write`                 | boolean | Indicates whether results were stored.
| `writeRelationshipType` | string  | The relationship type used when storing results.
| `writeProperty`         | string  | The property used when storing results.
| `min`                   | double  | The minimum similarity score computed.
| `max`                   | double  | The maximum similarity score computed.
| `mean`                  | double  | The mean of similarities scores computed.
| `stdDev`                | double  | The standard deviation of similarities scores computed.
| `p25`                   | double  | The 25 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p50`                   | double  | The 50 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p75`                   | double  | The 75 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p90`                   | double  | The 90 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p95`                   | double  | The 95 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p99`                   | double  | The 99 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p999`                  | double  | The 99.9 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p100`                  | double  | The 25 percentile of similarities scores computed.
|===

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.similarity.overlap.stream(userData:List<Map>, {
    degreeCutoff: 10, similarityCutoff: 0.1, concurrency:4
})
YIELD item1, item2, count1, count2, similarity

----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name               | Type   | Default        | Optional | Description
| `data`             | list   | null           | no       | A list of maps of the following structure: `{item: nodeId, categories: [nodeId, nodeId, nodeId]}`
| `top`              | int    | 0              | yes      | The number of similar pairs to return. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `topK`             | int    | 0              | yes      | The number of similar values to return per node. If `0`, it  will return as many as it finds.
| `similarityCutoff` | int    | -1             | yes      | The threshold for Overlap similarity. Values below this will not be returned.
| `degreeCutoff`     | int    | 0              | yes      | The threshold for the number of items in the `targets` list. If the list contains less than this amount, that node will be excluded from the calculation.
| `concurrency`      | int    | available CPUs | yes      | The number of concurrent threads.
| `sourceIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items from which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `targetIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items to which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name           | Type | Description
| `item1`        | int  | The ID of one node in the similarity pair.
| `item2`        | int  | The ID of other node in the similarity pair.
| `count1`       | int  | The size of the `targets` list of one node.
| `count2`       | int  | The size of the `targets` list of other node.
| `intersection` | int  | The number of intersecting values in the two nodes `targets` lists.
| `similarity`   | int  | The Overlap similarity of the two nodes.
|===

Commit message:

Add read/write concurrency to docs
Wherever there is a concurrency entry, add readConcurrency and
writeConcurrency.

doc/asciidoc/experimental-similarity-overlap.adoc, after:

[[experimental-algorithms-similarity-overlap]]
= The Overlap Similarity algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Overlap Similarity algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Overlap_coefficient[Overlap similarity] measures overlap between two sets.
It is defined as the size of the intersection of two sets, divided by the size of the smaller of the two sets.

[WARNING]
--
The Overlap Similarity algorithm is experimental and not officially supported.
--

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-similarity-overlap-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-overlap-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the Overlap Similarity algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-overlap-function-sample, Overlap Similarity algorithm function sample>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-overlap-procedure-sample, Overlap Similarity algorithm procedures sample>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-overlap-source-target-ids, Specifying source and target ids>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-overlap-syntax, Syntax>>


[[algorithms-similarity-overlap-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]

Overlap similarity is computed using the following formula:

image::overlap.png[role="middle"]

// This is the raw information for this image:
// ```
// O(A,B) = (∣A ∩ B∣) / (min(∣A|,|B|))
// ```

The library contains both procedures and functions to calculate similarity between sets of data.
The function is best used when calculating the similarity between small numbers of sets.
The procedures parallelize the computation, and are therefore more appropriate for computing similarities on bigger datasets.

// end::explanation[]

[[algorithms-similarity-overlap-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the Overlap Similarity algorithm

// tag::use-case[]
We can use the Overlap Similarity algorithm to work out which things are subsets of others.
We might then use these computed subsets to https://jbarrasa.com/2017/03/31/quickgraph5-learning-a-taxonomy-from-your-tagged-data/[learn a taxonomy from tagged data^], as described by Jesús Barrasa.
// end::use-case[]


[[algorithms-similarity-overlap-function-sample]]
== Overlap Similarity algorithm function sample

.The following will return the Overlap similarity of two lists of numbers:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-overlap.cypher[tag=function]
----

// tag::function[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `similarity`
| 0.66
|===
// end::function[]

// tag::function-explanation[]
These two lists of numbers have an overlap similarity of 0.66.
We can see how this result is derived by breaking down the formula:

```
O(A,B) = (∣A ∩ B∣) / (min(∣A|,|B|))
O(A,B) = 2 / min(3,4)
       = 2 / 3
       = 0.66
```
// end::function-explanation[]

[[algorithms-similarity-overlap-procedure-sample]]
== Overlap Similarity algorithm procedures sample

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-overlap.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will return a stream of node pairs, along with their intersection and overlap similarities:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-overlap.cypher[tag=stream]
----

// tag::stream[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`          | `to`                | `count1` | `count2` | `intersection`   | `similarity`
| Fantasy         | Science Fiction | 3      | 4      | 3            | 1.0
| Dystopia        | Science Fiction | 2      | 4      | 2            | 1.0
| Dystopia        | Classics        | 2      | 4      | 2            | 1.0
| Science Fiction | Classics        | 4      | 4      | 3            | 0.75
| Fantasy         | Classics        | 3      | 4      | 2            | 0.66
| Dystopia        | Fantasy         | 2      | 3      | 1            | 0.5
|===
// end::stream[]

Fantasy and Dystopia are both clear subgenres of Science Fiction - 100% of the books that list those as genres also list Science Fiction as a genre.
Dystopia is also a subgenre of Classics.
The others are less obvious; Dystopia probably isn't a subgenre of Fantasy, but the other two pairs could be subgenres.

.The following will return a stream of node pairs that have a similarity of at least 0.75, along with their intersection and overlap similarities:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-overlap.cypher[tag=stream-similarity-cutoff]
----

// tag::stream-similarity-cutoff[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`          | `to`                | `count1` | `count2` | `intersection`   | `similarity`
| Fantasy         | Science Fiction | 3      | 4      | 3            | 1.0
| Dystopia        | Science Fiction | 2      | 4      | 2            | 1.0
| Dystopia        | Classics        | 2      | 4      | 2            | 1.0
| Science Fiction | Classics        | 4      | 4      | 3            | 0.75
|===
// end::stream-similarity-cutoff[]

We can see that those genres with lower similarity have been filtered out.
If we're implementing a k-Nearest Neighbors type query we might instead want to find the most similar `k` super genres for a given genre.
We can do that by passing in the `topK` parameter.

.The following will return a stream of genres, along with the two most similar super genres to them (i.e. `k=2`):
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-overlap.cypher[tag=stream-topk]
----

// tag::stream-topk[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`          | `to`                | `count1` | `count2` | `intersection`   | `similarity`
| Dystopia        | Classics        | 2      | 4      | 2            | 1.0
| Dystopia        | Science Fiction | 2      | 4      | 2            | 1.0
| Fantasy         | Science Fiction | 3      | 4      | 3            | 1.0
| Fantasy         | Classics        | 3      | 4      | 2            | 0.6666666666666666
| Science Fiction | Classics        | 4      | 4      | 3            | 0.75
|===
// end::stream-topk[]

.The following will find the most similar genre for each genre, and store a relationship between those genres:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-overlap.cypher[tag=write-back]
----

// tag::write-back[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `nodes` | `similarityPairs` | `write` | `writeRelationshipType` | `writeProperty` | `min`  | `max`  | `mean` | `p95`
| 4     | 5               | TRUE  | NARROWER_THAN       | score       | 0.6666641235351562 | 1.0000038146972656 | 0.8833351135253906 | 1.0000038146972656
|===
// end::write-back[]

We then could write a query to find out the genre hierarchy for a specific genre.

.The following will find the genre hierarchy for the Fantasy genre
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-overlap.cypher[tag=query]
----

// tag::query[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `hierarchy`
| ["Fantasy", "Science Fiction"]
| ["Fantasy", "Classics"]
| ["Fantasy", "Science Fiction", "Classics"]
|===
// end::query[]

[[algorithms-similarity-overlap-source-target-ids]]
== Specifying source and target ids

include::experimental-similarity.adoc[tag=source-target-ids]

We could use this technique to compute the similarity of a subset of items to all other items.

.The following will return the super genres for the `Fantasy` and `Classics` genres:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-overlap.cypher[tag=source-target-ids]
----

// tag::source-target-ids-2[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1"]
|===
| `from`   | `to`     | `similarity`
| Fantasy  | Science Fiction | 1.0               
| Classics | Science Fiction | 0.75              
| Fantasy  | Classics        | 0.6666666666666666
|===
// end::source-target-ids-2[]

[[algorithms-similarity-overlap-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.similarity.overlap(userData:List<Map>, {
    topK: 1, similarityCutoff: 0.1, write:true, writeProperty: "overlapSimilarity"
})
YIELD nodes, similarityPairs, write, writeRelationshipType, writeProperty, min, max, mean, stdDev, p25, p50, p75, p90, p95, p99, p999, p100
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name                    | Type    | Default                | Optional | Description
| `data`                  | list    | null                   | no       | A list of maps of the following structure: `{item: nodeId, categories: [nodeId, nodeId, nodeId]}`
| `top`                   | int     | 0                      | yes      | The number of similar pairs to return. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `topK`                  | int     | 0                      | yes      | The number of similar values to return per node. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `similarityCutoff`      | int     | -1                     | yes      | The threshold for Overlap similarity. Values below this will not be returned.
| `degreeCutoff`          | int     | 0                      | yes      | The threshold for the number of items in the `targets` list. If the list contains less than this amount, that node will be excluded from the calculation.
| `concurrency`           | int     | available CPUs         | yes      | The number of concurrent threads.
| `readConcurrency`       | int     | value of `concurrency` | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for reading the graph.
| `writeConcurrency`      | int     | value of `concurrency` | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for writing the result.
| `write`                 | boolean | false                  | yes      | Indicates whether results should be stored.
| `writeRelationshipType` | string  | NARROWER_THAN          | yes      | The relationship type to use when storing results.
| `writeProperty`         | string  | score                  | yes      | The property to use when storing results.
| `sourceIds`             | long[]  | null                   | yes      | The ids of items from which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `targetIds`             | long[]  | null                   | yes      | The ids of items to which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.

|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name                    | Type    | Description
| `nodes`                 | int     | The number of nodes passed in.
| `similarityPairs`       | int     | The number of pairs of similar nodes computed.
| `write`                 | boolean | Indicates whether results were stored.
| `writeRelationshipType` | string  | The relationship type used when storing results.
| `writeProperty`         | string  | The property used when storing results.
| `min`                   | double  | The minimum similarity score computed.
| `max`                   | double  | The maximum similarity score computed.
| `mean`                  | double  | The mean of similarities scores computed.
| `stdDev`                | double  | The standard deviation of similarities scores computed.
| `p25`                   | double  | The 25 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p50`                   | double  | The 50 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p75`                   | double  | The 75 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p90`                   | double  | The 90 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p95`                   | double  | The 95 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p99`                   | double  | The 99 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p999`                  | double  | The 99.9 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p100`                  | double  | The 25 percentile of similarities scores computed.
|===

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.similarity.overlap.stream(userData:List<Map>, {
    degreeCutoff: 10, similarityCutoff: 0.1, concurrency:4
})
YIELD item1, item2, count1, count2, similarity

----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name               | Type   | Default                | Optional | Description
| `data`             | list   | null                   | no       | A list of maps of the following structure: `{item: nodeId, categories: [nodeId, nodeId, nodeId]}`
| `top`              | int    | 0                      | yes      | The number of similar pairs to return. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `topK`             | int    | 0                      | yes      | The number of similar values to return per node. If `0`, it  will return as many as it finds.
| `similarityCutoff` | int    | -1                     | yes      | The threshold for Overlap similarity. Values below this will not be returned.
| `degreeCutoff`     | int    | 0                      | yes      | The threshold for the number of items in the `targets` list. If the list contains less than this amount, that node will be excluded from the calculation.
| `concurrency`      | int    | available CPUs         | yes      | The number of concurrent threads.
| `readConcurrency`  | int    | value of `concurrency` | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for reading the graph.
| `writeConcurrency` | int    | value of `concurrency` | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for writing the result.
| `sourceIds`        | long[] | null                   | yes      | The ids of items from which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `targetIds`        | long[] | null                   | yes      | The ids of items to which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name           | Type | Description
| `item1`        | int  | The ID of one node in the similarity pair.
| `item2`        | int  | The ID of other node in the similarity pair.
| `count1`       | int  | The size of the `targets` list of one node.
| `count2`       | int  | The size of the `targets` list of other node.
| `intersection` | int  | The number of intersecting values in the two nodes `targets` lists.
| `similarity`   | int  | The Overlap similarity of the two nodes.
|===
