doc/asciidoc/experimental-all-pairs-shortest-path.adoc, before:

[[experimental-algorithm-all-pairs-shortest-path]]
= The All Pairs Shortest Path algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the All Pairs Shortest Path algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

// tag::introduction[]
The All Pairs Shortest Path (APSP) calculates the shortest (weighted) path between all pairs of nodes.
This algorithm has optimisations that make it quicker than calling the Single Source Shortest Path algorithm for every pair of nodes in the graph.
// end::introduction[]

This section includes:

* <<algorithm-all-pairs-shortest-path-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithm-all-pairs-shortest-path-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the All Pairs Shortest Path algorithm>>
* <<algorithm-all-pairs-shortest-path-sample, All Pairs Shortest Path algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithm-all-pairs-shortest-path-hgp, Huge graph projection>>
* <<algorithm-all-pairs-shortest-path-imp, Implementations>>


[[algorithm-all-pairs-shortest-path-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]
Some pairs of nodes might not be reachable between each other, so no shortest path exists between these pairs.
In this scenario, the algorithm will return `Infinity` value as a result between these pairs of nodes.
// end::explanation[]

Plain cypher does not support filtering `Infinity` values, so `algo.isFinite` function was added to help filter `Infinity` values from results.


[[algorithm-all-pairs-shortest-path-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the All Pairs Shortest Path algorithm

// tag::use-case[]

* The All Pairs Shortest Path algorithm is used in urban service system problems, such as the location of urban facilities or the distribution or delivery of goods.
  One example of this is determining the traffic load expected on different segments of a transportation grid.
  For more information, see http://web.mit.edu/urban_or_book/www/book/[Urban Operations Research^].
* All pairs shortest path is used as part of the REWIRE data center design algorithm that finds a network with maximum bandwidth and minimal latency.
  There are more details about this approach in https://cs.uwaterloo.ca/research/tr/2011/CS-2011-21.pdf["REWIRE: An Optimization-based Framework for Data Center Network Design"^]

// end::use-case[]


[[algorithm-all-pairs-shortest-path-sample]]
== All Pairs Shortest Path algorithm sample

image::sssp.png[]

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=all-pairs-sample-graph]
----

// tag::all-pairs-stream-sample-graph-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1"]
|===
| Source | Target | Cost
| A      | F      | 100
| C      | F      | 90
| B      | F      | 90
| A      | E      | 80
| C      | E      | 70
| B      | E      | 80
| A      | B      | 50
| D      | F      | 50
| A      | C      | 50
| A      | D      | 50
|===
// end::all-pairs-stream-sample-graph-result[]

// tag::all-pairs-stream-sample-graph-explanation[]
This query returned the top 10 pairs of nodes that are the furthest away from each other.
F and E appear to be quite distant from the others.
// end::all-pairs-stream-sample-graph-explanation[]

For now, only single-source shortest path support loading the relationship as undirected, but we can use Cypher loading to help us solve this.
Undirected graph can be represented as https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bidirected_graph[Bidirected graph], which is a directed graph in which the reverse of every relationship is also a relationship.

We do not have to save this reversed relationship, we can project it using *Cypher loading*.
Note that relationship query does not specify direction of the relationship.
This is applicable to all other algorithms that use Cypher loading.

.The following will run the algorithm, treating the graph as undirected:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=all-pairs-bidirected-graph]
----


[[algorithm-all-pairs-shortest-path-hgp]]
== Huge graph projection

include::huge-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'huge'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=all-pairs-huge-projection]
----


[[algorithm-all-pairs-shortest-path-imp]]
== Implementations

`algo.allShortestPaths.stream`

* Find shortest paths between all pairs of nodes.
* Returns a stream of source-target node to distance tuples for each pair of nodes.
* Writeback is not supported.
* If initialized with an non-existing weight-property, it will treat the graph as unweighted.

ifdef::implementation[]
// tag::implementation[]


ifndef::env-docs[]
== References

// tag::references[]
* [1] http://web.mit.edu/urban_or_book/www/book/[Urban Operations Research^] - Richard C. Larson and Amedeo R. Odoni
* [2] https://cs.uwaterloo.ca/research/tr/2011/CS-2011-21.pdf[REWIRE: An optimization-based framework for unstructured data center network design^] - Andrew R. Curtis, Tommy Carpenter, Mustafa Elsheikh, Alejandro López-Ortiz, S. Keshav
// end::references[]
endif::env-docs[]


== Implementation details

:leveloffset: +1


== Details


=== algo.allShortestPaths.stream

- Returns a stream of source-target node to distance tuples for each pair of nodes
- Since all nodeId's have already been ordered by the idMapping we can use an integer instead of a queue which just counts up for each startNodeId as long as it is < nodeCount.
- Each thread tries to take one int from the counter at one time and starts its computation on it.
- The {@link AllShortestPaths#concurrency} value determines the count of workers that should be spawned.
- Due to the high memory footprint the result set would have we emit each result into a blocking queue.
  The result stream takes elements from the queue while the workers add elements to it.
- The result stream is limited by N^2. If the stream gets closed prematurely the workers get closed too.
- Writeback not supported!

// end::implementation[]
endif::implementation[]

Commit message:

Add admonitions for all experimental algorithms

doc/asciidoc/experimental-all-pairs-shortest-path.adoc, after:

[[experimental-algorithm-all-pairs-shortest-path]]
= The All Pairs Shortest Path algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the All Pairs Shortest Path algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

The All Pairs Shortest Path (APSP) calculates the shortest (weighted) path between all pairs of nodes.
This algorithm has optimisations that make it quicker than calling the Single Source Shortest Path algorithm for every pair of nodes in the graph.

[WARNING]
--
The All Pairs Shortest Path algorithm is experimental and not officially supported.
--

This section includes:

* <<algorithm-all-pairs-shortest-path-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithm-all-pairs-shortest-path-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the All Pairs Shortest Path algorithm>>
* <<algorithm-all-pairs-shortest-path-sample, All Pairs Shortest Path algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithm-all-pairs-shortest-path-hgp, Huge graph projection>>
* <<algorithm-all-pairs-shortest-path-imp, Implementations>>


[[algorithm-all-pairs-shortest-path-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]
Some pairs of nodes might not be reachable between each other, so no shortest path exists between these pairs.
In this scenario, the algorithm will return `Infinity` value as a result between these pairs of nodes.
// end::explanation[]

Plain cypher does not support filtering `Infinity` values, so `algo.isFinite` function was added to help filter `Infinity` values from results.


[[algorithm-all-pairs-shortest-path-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the All Pairs Shortest Path algorithm

// tag::use-case[]

* The All Pairs Shortest Path algorithm is used in urban service system problems, such as the location of urban facilities or the distribution or delivery of goods.
  One example of this is determining the traffic load expected on different segments of a transportation grid.
  For more information, see http://web.mit.edu/urban_or_book/www/book/[Urban Operations Research^].
* All pairs shortest path is used as part of the REWIRE data center design algorithm that finds a network with maximum bandwidth and minimal latency.
  There are more details about this approach in https://cs.uwaterloo.ca/research/tr/2011/CS-2011-21.pdf["REWIRE: An Optimization-based Framework for Data Center Network Design"^]

// end::use-case[]


[[algorithm-all-pairs-shortest-path-sample]]
== All Pairs Shortest Path algorithm sample

image::sssp.png[]

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=all-pairs-sample-graph]
----

// tag::all-pairs-stream-sample-graph-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1"]
|===
| Source | Target | Cost
| A      | F      | 100
| C      | F      | 90
| B      | F      | 90
| A      | E      | 80
| C      | E      | 70
| B      | E      | 80
| A      | B      | 50
| D      | F      | 50
| A      | C      | 50
| A      | D      | 50
|===
// end::all-pairs-stream-sample-graph-result[]

// tag::all-pairs-stream-sample-graph-explanation[]
This query returned the top 10 pairs of nodes that are the furthest away from each other.
F and E appear to be quite distant from the others.
// end::all-pairs-stream-sample-graph-explanation[]

For now, only single-source shortest path support loading the relationship as undirected, but we can use Cypher loading to help us solve this.
Undirected graph can be represented as https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bidirected_graph[Bidirected graph], which is a directed graph in which the reverse of every relationship is also a relationship.

We do not have to save this reversed relationship, we can project it using *Cypher loading*.
Note that relationship query does not specify direction of the relationship.
This is applicable to all other algorithms that use Cypher loading.

.The following will run the algorithm, treating the graph as undirected:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=all-pairs-bidirected-graph]
----


[[algorithm-all-pairs-shortest-path-hgp]]
== Huge graph projection

include::huge-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'huge'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=all-pairs-huge-projection]
----


[[algorithm-all-pairs-shortest-path-imp]]
== Implementations

`algo.allShortestPaths.stream`

* Find shortest paths between all pairs of nodes.
* Returns a stream of source-target node to distance tuples for each pair of nodes.
* Writeback is not supported.
* If initialized with an non-existing weight-property, it will treat the graph as unweighted.

ifdef::implementation[]
// tag::implementation[]


ifndef::env-docs[]
== References

// tag::references[]
* [1] http://web.mit.edu/urban_or_book/www/book/[Urban Operations Research^] - Richard C. Larson and Amedeo R. Odoni
* [2] https://cs.uwaterloo.ca/research/tr/2011/CS-2011-21.pdf[REWIRE: An optimization-based framework for unstructured data center network design^] - Andrew R. Curtis, Tommy Carpenter, Mustafa Elsheikh, Alejandro López-Ortiz, S. Keshav
// end::references[]
endif::env-docs[]


== Implementation details

:leveloffset: +1


== Details


=== algo.allShortestPaths.stream

- Returns a stream of source-target node to distance tuples for each pair of nodes
- Since all nodeId's have already been ordered by the idMapping we can use an integer instead of a queue which just counts up for each startNodeId as long as it is < nodeCount.
- Each thread tries to take one int from the counter at one time and starts its computation on it.
- The {@link AllShortestPaths#concurrency} value determines the count of workers that should be spawned.
- Due to the high memory footprint the result set would have we emit each result into a blocking queue.
  The result stream takes elements from the queue while the workers add elements to it.
- The result stream is limited by N^2. If the stream gets closed prematurely the workers get closed too.
- Writeback not supported!

// end::implementation[]
endif::implementation[]
