doc/asciidoc/experimental-similarity-pearson.adoc, before:

:procedure-name: Pearson Similarity
[[experimental-algorithms-similarity-pearson]]
= The Pearson Similarity algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Pearson Similarity algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

// tag::introduction[]
link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pearson_correlation_coefficient[Pearson similarity] is the covariance of the two _n_-dimensional vectors divided by the product of their standard deviations.
// end::introduction[]

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-similarity-pearson-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-pearson-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the Pearson Similarity algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-pearson-function-sample, Pearson Similarity algorithm function sample>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-pearson-procedure-sample, Pearson Similarity algorithm procedures sample>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-pearson-source-target-ids, Specifying source and target ids>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-pearson-skipping-values, Skipping values>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-pearson-cypher-projection, Cypher projection>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-pearson-syntax, Syntax>>


[[algorithms-similarity-pearson-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]

Pearson similarity is computed using the following formula:

image::pearson-similarity.png[role="middle"]

Values range between -1 and 1, where -1 is perfectly dissimilar and 1 is perfectly similar.

The library contains both procedures and functions to calculate similarity between sets of data.
The function is best used when calculating the similarity between small numbers of sets.
The procedures parallelize the computation and are therefore more appropriate for computing similarities on bigger datasets.

// end::explanation[]

[[algorithms-similarity-pearson-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the Pearson Similarity algorithm

// tag::use-case[]
We can use the Pearson Similarity algorithm to work out the similarity between two things.
We might then use the computed similarity as part of a recommendation query.
For example, to get movie recommendations based on the preferences of users who have given similar ratings to other movies that you've seen.
// end::use-case[]


[[algorithms-similarity-pearson-function-sample]]
== Pearson Similarity algorithm function sample

The Pearson Similarity function computes the similarity of two lists of numbers.

include::experimental-similarity.adoc[tag=weighted-function-note]

We can use it to compute the similarity of two hardcoded lists.

.The following will return the Pearson similarity of two lists of numbers:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=function]
----

// tag::function[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `similarity`
| 0.28767798089123053
|===
// end::function[]

We can also use it to compute the similarity of nodes based on lists computed by a Cypher query.

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will return the Pearson similarity of Arya and Karin:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=function-cypher]
----

// tag::function-cypher[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`       | `to`         | `similarity`
|"Arya" |	"Karin"	 | 0.8194651785206903

|===
// end::function-cypher[]


In this example, we pass in `vectorType: "maps"` as an extra parameter, as well as using the `algo.similarity.asVector` function to construct a vector of maps containing each movie and the corresponding rating.
We do this because the Pearson Similarity algorithm needs to compute the average of *all* the movies that a user has reviewed, not just the ones that they have in common with the user we're comparing them to.
We can't therefore just pass in collections of the ratings of movies that have been reviewed by both people.

.The following will return the Pearson similarity of Arya and other people that have rated at least one movie:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=function-cypher-all]
----

// tag::function-cypher--all[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`       | `to`         | `similarity`
| "Arya" | "Karin"    | 0.8194651785206903
| "Arya" | "Zhen"     | 0.4839533792540704
| "Arya" | "Praveena" | 0.09262336892949784
| "Arya" | "Michael"  | -0.9551953674747637

|===
// end::function-cypher-all[]


[[algorithms-similarity-pearson-procedure-sample]]
== Pearson Similarity algorithm procedures sample

include::experimental-similarity.adoc[tag=computation]
include::experimental-similarity.adoc[tag=weighted-note]


.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----


.The following will return a stream of node pairs along with their Pearson similarities:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=stream]
----

// tag::stream[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`       | `to`         | `similarity`
| "Zhen"     | "Praveena" | 0.8865926413116155
| "Zhen"     | "Karin"    | 0.8320502943378437
| "Arya"     | "Karin"    | 0.8194651785206903
| "Zhen"     | "Arya"     | 0.4839533792540704
| "Praveena" | "Karin"    | 0.4472135954999579
| "Praveena" | "Arya"     | 0.09262336892949784
| "Praveena" | "Michael"  | -0.788492846568306
| "Zhen"     | "Michael"  | -0.9091365607973364
| "Michael"  | "Arya"     | -0.9551953674747637
| "Michael"  | "Karin"    | -0.9863939238321437

|===
// end::stream[]

Zhen and Praveena are the most similar with a score of 0.88.
The maximum score is 1.0
We also have 4 pairs of users who are not similar at all.
We'd probably want to filter those out, which we can do by passing in the `similarityCutoff` parameter.

.The following will return a stream of node pairs that have a similarity of at least 0.1, along with their Pearson similarities:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=stream-similarity-cutoff]
----

// tag::stream-similarity-cutoff[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`       | `to`         | `similarity`
| "Zhen"     | "Praveena" | 0.8865926413116155
| "Zhen"     | "Karin"    | 0.8320502943378437
| "Arya"     | "Karin"    | 0.8194651785206903
| "Zhen"     | "Arya"     | 0.4839533792540704
| "Praveena" | "Karin"    | 0.4472135954999579
|===
// end::stream-similarity-cutoff[]

We can see that those users with no similarity have been filtered out.
If we're implementing a k-Nearest Neighbors type query we might instead want to find the most similar `k` users for a given user.
We can do that by passing in the `topK` parameter.

.The following will return a stream of users along with the most similar user to them (i.e. `k=1`):
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=stream-topk]
----

// tag::stream-topk[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1"]
|===
| `from`     | `to`       | `similarity`
| "Zhen"     | "Praveena" | 0.8865926413116155
| "Praveena" | "Zhen"     | 0.8865926413116155
| "Karin"    | "Zhen"     | 0.8320502943378437
| "Arya"     | "Karin"    | 0.8194651785206903

|===
// end::stream-topk[]

These results will not necessarily be symmetrical.
For example, the person most similar to Arya is Karin, but the person most similar to Karin is Zhen.

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name             | Type   | Default        | Optional | Description
| `data`             | list   | null           | no       | A list of maps of the following structure: `{item: nodeId, weights: [weight, weight, weight]}`
| `top`              | int    | 0              | yes      | The number of similar pairs to return. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `topK`             | int    | 0              | yes      | The number of similar values to return per node. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `similarityCutoff` | int    | -1             | yes      | The threshold for cosine similarity. Values below this will not be returned.
| `degreeCutoff`     | int    | 0              | yes      | The threshold for the number of items in the `targets` list. If the list contains less than this amount, that node will be excluded from the calculation.
| `concurrency`      | int    | available CPUs | yes      | The number of concurrent threads.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name         | Type | Description
| `item1`      | int  | The ID of one node in the similarity pair.
| `item2`      | int  | The ID of other node in the similarity pair.
| `count1`       | int  | The size of the `targets` list of one node.
| `count2`       | int  | The size of the `targets` list of other node.
| `intersection` | int  | The number of intersecting values in the two nodes `targets` lists.
| `similarity`   | int  | The cosine similarity of the two nodes.
|===

.The following will find the most similar user for each user, and store a relationship between those users:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=write-back]
----

// tag::write-back[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| `nodes` | `similarityPairs` | `write` | `writeRelationshipType` | `writeProperty` | `min`  | `max`  | `mean` | `p95`
| 5     | 5               | TRUE  | "SIMILAR"             | "score"       | 0.5198593139648438 | 1.0000038146972656 | 0.8981185913085937 | 1.0000038146972656
|===
// end::write-back[]

We then could write a query to find out which are the movies that other people similar to us liked.

.The following will find the most similar user to Praveena, and return their favourite movies that Praveena didn't (yet!) rate:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=query]
----

// tag::query[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `movie`
| The Matrix
|===
// end::query[]

[[algorithms-similarity-pearson-source-target-ids]]
== Specifying source and target ids

include::experimental-similarity.adoc[tag=source-target-ids]

We could use this technique to compute the similarity of a subset of items to all other items.

.The following will find the most similar person (i.e. `k=1`) to Arya and Praveena:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=source-target-ids]
----

// tag::source-target-ids[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1"]
|===
| `from`   | `to`     | `similarity`
| Praveena | Zhen  | 0.8865926413116155 
| Arya     | Karin | 0.8194651785206903 
|===
// end::source-target-ids[]

[[algorithms-similarity-pearson-skipping-values]]
== Skipping values

By default the `skipValue` parameter is `algo.Nan()`.
The algorithm checks every value against the `skipValue` to determine whether that value should be considered as part of the similarity result.
For cases where no values should be skipped, skipping can be disabled by setting `skipValue` to `null`.

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=create-sample-embedding-graph]
----

.The following will find the similarity between movies based on the `embedding` property:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=embedding-graph-stream]
----

[[algorithms-similarity-pearson-cypher-projection]]
== Cypher projection

include::projected-graph-model/cypher-projection.adoc[tag=similarity-explanation]

.Set `graph:'cypher'` in the config:

[source,cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=cypher-projection]
----



[[algorithms-similarity-pearson-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.similarity.pearson(userData:List<Map>> or String, {
    topK: 1, similarityCutoff: 0.1, write:true, writeProperty: "pearsonSimilarity"
})
YIELD nodes, similarityPairs, write, writeRelationshipType, writeProperty, min, max, mean, stdDev, p25, p50, p75, p90, p95, p99, p999, p100
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name                   | Type    | Default        | Optional | Description
| `data`                   | list or string    | null           | no       | A list of maps of the following structure: `{item: nodeId, categories: [nodeId, nodeId, nodeId]}` or a Cypher query.
| `top`                    | int     | 0              | yes      | The number of similar pairs to return. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `topK`                   | int     | 0              | yes      | The number of similar values to return per node. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `similarityCutoff`       | int     | -1             | yes      | The threshold for similarity. Values below this will not be returned.
| `degreeCutoff`           | int     | 0              | yes      | The threshold for the number of items in the `targets` list. If the list contains less than this amount, that node will be excluded from the calculation.
| `skipValue`              | double  | algo.NaN()     | yes      | Value to skip when executing similarity computation. A value of `null` means that skipping is disabled.
| `concurrency`            | int     | available CPUs | yes      | The number of concurrent threads.
| `graph`                  | string  | dense          | yes      | The graph name ('dense' or 'cypher').
| `write`                  | boolean | false          | yes      | Indicates whether results should be stored.
| `writeBatchSize`            | int     | 10000 | yes      | The batch size to use when storing results.
| `writeRelationshipType`  | string  | SIMILAR        | yes      | The relationship type to use when storing results.
| `writeProperty`          | string  | score          | yes      | The property to use when storing results.
| `sourceIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items from which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `targetIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items to which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name                  | Type    | Description
| `nodes`                 | int     | The number of nodes passed in.
| `similarityPairs`       | int     | The number of pairs of similar nodes computed.
| `write`                 | boolean | Indicates whether results were stored.
| `writeRelationshipType` | string  | The relationship type used when storing results.
| `writeProperty`         | string  | The property used when storing results.
| `min`                   | double  | The minimum similarity score computed.
| `max`                   | double  | The maximum similarity score computed.
| `mean`                  | double  | The mean of similarities scores computed.
| `stdDev`                | double  | The standard deviation of similarities scores computed.
| `p25`                   | double  | The 25 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p50`                   | double  | The 50 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p75`                   | double  | The 75 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p90`                   | double  | The 90 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p95`                   | double  | The 95 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p99`                   | double  | The 99 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p999`                  | double  | The 99.9 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p100`                  | double  | The 100 percentile of similarities scores computed.
|===

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.similarity.pearson.stream(userData:List<Map>> or String, {
    degreeCutoff: 10, similarityCutoff: 0.1, concurrency:4
})
YIELD item1, item2, count1, count2, intersection, similarity

----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name             | Type   | Default        | Optional | Description
| `data`                   | list or string    | null           | no       | A list of maps of the following structure: `{item: nodeId, categories: [nodeId, nodeId, nodeId]}` or a Cypher query.
| `top`              | int    | 0              | yes      | The number of similar pairs to return. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `topK`             | int    | 0              | yes      | The number of similar values to return per node. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `similarityCutoff` | int    | -1             | yes      | The threshold for similarity. Values below this will not be returned.
| `degreeCutoff`     | int    | 0              | yes      | The threshold for the number of items in the `targets` list. If the list contains less than this amount, that node will be excluded from the calculation.
| `skipValue`              | double  | algo.NaN()     | yes      | Value to skip when executing similarity computation. A value of `null` means that skipping is disabled.
| `concurrency`      | int    | available CPUs | yes      | The number of concurrent threads.
| `graph`                  | string  | dense          | yes      | The graph name ('dense' or 'cypher').
| `sourceIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items from which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `targetIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items to which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name         | Type | Description
| `item1`      | int  | The ID of one node in the similarity pair.
| `item2`      | int  | The ID of other node in the similarity pair.
| `count1`       | int  | The size of the `targets` list of one node.
| `count2`       | int  | The size of the `targets` list of other node.
| `intersection` | int  | The number of intersecting values in the two nodes `targets` lists.
| `similarity`   | int  | The cosine similarity of the two nodes.
|===

Commit message:

Add admonitions for all experimental algorithms

doc/asciidoc/experimental-similarity-pearson.adoc, after:

:procedure-name: Pearson Similarity
[[experimental-algorithms-similarity-pearson]]
= The Pearson Similarity algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Pearson Similarity algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pearson_correlation_coefficient[Pearson similarity] is the covariance of the two _n_-dimensional vectors divided by the product of their standard deviations.

[WARNING]
--
The Pearson Similarity algorithm is experimental and not officially supported.
--

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-similarity-pearson-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-pearson-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the Pearson Similarity algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-pearson-function-sample, Pearson Similarity algorithm function sample>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-pearson-procedure-sample, Pearson Similarity algorithm procedures sample>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-pearson-source-target-ids, Specifying source and target ids>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-pearson-skipping-values, Skipping values>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-pearson-cypher-projection, Cypher projection>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-pearson-syntax, Syntax>>


[[algorithms-similarity-pearson-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]

Pearson similarity is computed using the following formula:

image::pearson-similarity.png[role="middle"]

Values range between -1 and 1, where -1 is perfectly dissimilar and 1 is perfectly similar.

The library contains both procedures and functions to calculate similarity between sets of data.
The function is best used when calculating the similarity between small numbers of sets.
The procedures parallelize the computation and are therefore more appropriate for computing similarities on bigger datasets.

// end::explanation[]

[[algorithms-similarity-pearson-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the Pearson Similarity algorithm

// tag::use-case[]
We can use the Pearson Similarity algorithm to work out the similarity between two things.
We might then use the computed similarity as part of a recommendation query.
For example, to get movie recommendations based on the preferences of users who have given similar ratings to other movies that you've seen.
// end::use-case[]


[[algorithms-similarity-pearson-function-sample]]
== Pearson Similarity algorithm function sample

The Pearson Similarity function computes the similarity of two lists of numbers.

include::experimental-similarity.adoc[tag=weighted-function-note]

We can use it to compute the similarity of two hardcoded lists.

.The following will return the Pearson similarity of two lists of numbers:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=function]
----

// tag::function[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `similarity`
| 0.28767798089123053
|===
// end::function[]

We can also use it to compute the similarity of nodes based on lists computed by a Cypher query.

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will return the Pearson similarity of Arya and Karin:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=function-cypher]
----

// tag::function-cypher[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`       | `to`         | `similarity`
|"Arya" |	"Karin"	 | 0.8194651785206903

|===
// end::function-cypher[]


In this example, we pass in `vectorType: "maps"` as an extra parameter, as well as using the `algo.similarity.asVector` function to construct a vector of maps containing each movie and the corresponding rating.
We do this because the Pearson Similarity algorithm needs to compute the average of *all* the movies that a user has reviewed, not just the ones that they have in common with the user we're comparing them to.
We can't therefore just pass in collections of the ratings of movies that have been reviewed by both people.

.The following will return the Pearson similarity of Arya and other people that have rated at least one movie:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=function-cypher-all]
----

// tag::function-cypher--all[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`       | `to`         | `similarity`
| "Arya" | "Karin"    | 0.8194651785206903
| "Arya" | "Zhen"     | 0.4839533792540704
| "Arya" | "Praveena" | 0.09262336892949784
| "Arya" | "Michael"  | -0.9551953674747637

|===
// end::function-cypher-all[]


[[algorithms-similarity-pearson-procedure-sample]]
== Pearson Similarity algorithm procedures sample

include::experimental-similarity.adoc[tag=computation]
include::experimental-similarity.adoc[tag=weighted-note]


.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----


.The following will return a stream of node pairs along with their Pearson similarities:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=stream]
----

// tag::stream[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`       | `to`         | `similarity`
| "Zhen"     | "Praveena" | 0.8865926413116155
| "Zhen"     | "Karin"    | 0.8320502943378437
| "Arya"     | "Karin"    | 0.8194651785206903
| "Zhen"     | "Arya"     | 0.4839533792540704
| "Praveena" | "Karin"    | 0.4472135954999579
| "Praveena" | "Arya"     | 0.09262336892949784
| "Praveena" | "Michael"  | -0.788492846568306
| "Zhen"     | "Michael"  | -0.9091365607973364
| "Michael"  | "Arya"     | -0.9551953674747637
| "Michael"  | "Karin"    | -0.9863939238321437

|===
// end::stream[]

Zhen and Praveena are the most similar with a score of 0.88.
The maximum score is 1.0
We also have 4 pairs of users who are not similar at all.
We'd probably want to filter those out, which we can do by passing in the `similarityCutoff` parameter.

.The following will return a stream of node pairs that have a similarity of at least 0.1, along with their Pearson similarities:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=stream-similarity-cutoff]
----

// tag::stream-similarity-cutoff[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`       | `to`         | `similarity`
| "Zhen"     | "Praveena" | 0.8865926413116155
| "Zhen"     | "Karin"    | 0.8320502943378437
| "Arya"     | "Karin"    | 0.8194651785206903
| "Zhen"     | "Arya"     | 0.4839533792540704
| "Praveena" | "Karin"    | 0.4472135954999579
|===
// end::stream-similarity-cutoff[]

We can see that those users with no similarity have been filtered out.
If we're implementing a k-Nearest Neighbors type query we might instead want to find the most similar `k` users for a given user.
We can do that by passing in the `topK` parameter.

.The following will return a stream of users along with the most similar user to them (i.e. `k=1`):
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=stream-topk]
----

// tag::stream-topk[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1"]
|===
| `from`     | `to`       | `similarity`
| "Zhen"     | "Praveena" | 0.8865926413116155
| "Praveena" | "Zhen"     | 0.8865926413116155
| "Karin"    | "Zhen"     | 0.8320502943378437
| "Arya"     | "Karin"    | 0.8194651785206903

|===
// end::stream-topk[]

These results will not necessarily be symmetrical.
For example, the person most similar to Arya is Karin, but the person most similar to Karin is Zhen.

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name             | Type   | Default        | Optional | Description
| `data`             | list   | null           | no       | A list of maps of the following structure: `{item: nodeId, weights: [weight, weight, weight]}`
| `top`              | int    | 0              | yes      | The number of similar pairs to return. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `topK`             | int    | 0              | yes      | The number of similar values to return per node. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `similarityCutoff` | int    | -1             | yes      | The threshold for cosine similarity. Values below this will not be returned.
| `degreeCutoff`     | int    | 0              | yes      | The threshold for the number of items in the `targets` list. If the list contains less than this amount, that node will be excluded from the calculation.
| `concurrency`      | int    | available CPUs | yes      | The number of concurrent threads.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name         | Type | Description
| `item1`      | int  | The ID of one node in the similarity pair.
| `item2`      | int  | The ID of other node in the similarity pair.
| `count1`       | int  | The size of the `targets` list of one node.
| `count2`       | int  | The size of the `targets` list of other node.
| `intersection` | int  | The number of intersecting values in the two nodes `targets` lists.
| `similarity`   | int  | The cosine similarity of the two nodes.
|===

.The following will find the most similar user for each user, and store a relationship between those users:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=write-back]
----

// tag::write-back[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| `nodes` | `similarityPairs` | `write` | `writeRelationshipType` | `writeProperty` | `min`  | `max`  | `mean` | `p95`
| 5     | 5               | TRUE  | "SIMILAR"             | "score"       | 0.5198593139648438 | 1.0000038146972656 | 0.8981185913085937 | 1.0000038146972656
|===
// end::write-back[]

We then could write a query to find out which are the movies that other people similar to us liked.

.The following will find the most similar user to Praveena, and return their favourite movies that Praveena didn't (yet!) rate:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=query]
----

// tag::query[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `movie`
| The Matrix
|===
// end::query[]

[[algorithms-similarity-pearson-source-target-ids]]
== Specifying source and target ids

include::experimental-similarity.adoc[tag=source-target-ids]

We could use this technique to compute the similarity of a subset of items to all other items.

.The following will find the most similar person (i.e. `k=1`) to Arya and Praveena:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=source-target-ids]
----

// tag::source-target-ids[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1"]
|===
| `from`   | `to`     | `similarity`
| Praveena | Zhen  | 0.8865926413116155 
| Arya     | Karin | 0.8194651785206903 
|===
// end::source-target-ids[]

[[algorithms-similarity-pearson-skipping-values]]
== Skipping values

By default the `skipValue` parameter is `algo.Nan()`.
The algorithm checks every value against the `skipValue` to determine whether that value should be considered as part of the similarity result.
For cases where no values should be skipped, skipping can be disabled by setting `skipValue` to `null`.

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=create-sample-embedding-graph]
----

.The following will find the similarity between movies based on the `embedding` property:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=embedding-graph-stream]
----

[[algorithms-similarity-pearson-cypher-projection]]
== Cypher projection

include::projected-graph-model/cypher-projection.adoc[tag=similarity-explanation]

.Set `graph:'cypher'` in the config:

[source,cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-pearson.cypher[tag=cypher-projection]
----



[[algorithms-similarity-pearson-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.similarity.pearson(userData:List<Map>> or String, {
    topK: 1, similarityCutoff: 0.1, write:true, writeProperty: "pearsonSimilarity"
})
YIELD nodes, similarityPairs, write, writeRelationshipType, writeProperty, min, max, mean, stdDev, p25, p50, p75, p90, p95, p99, p999, p100
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name                   | Type    | Default        | Optional | Description
| `data`                   | list or string    | null           | no       | A list of maps of the following structure: `{item: nodeId, categories: [nodeId, nodeId, nodeId]}` or a Cypher query.
| `top`                    | int     | 0              | yes      | The number of similar pairs to return. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `topK`                   | int     | 0              | yes      | The number of similar values to return per node. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `similarityCutoff`       | int     | -1             | yes      | The threshold for similarity. Values below this will not be returned.
| `degreeCutoff`           | int     | 0              | yes      | The threshold for the number of items in the `targets` list. If the list contains less than this amount, that node will be excluded from the calculation.
| `skipValue`              | double  | algo.NaN()     | yes      | Value to skip when executing similarity computation. A value of `null` means that skipping is disabled.
| `concurrency`            | int     | available CPUs | yes      | The number of concurrent threads.
| `graph`                  | string  | dense          | yes      | The graph name ('dense' or 'cypher').
| `write`                  | boolean | false          | yes      | Indicates whether results should be stored.
| `writeBatchSize`            | int     | 10000 | yes      | The batch size to use when storing results.
| `writeRelationshipType`  | string  | SIMILAR        | yes      | The relationship type to use when storing results.
| `writeProperty`          | string  | score          | yes      | The property to use when storing results.
| `sourceIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items from which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `targetIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items to which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name                  | Type    | Description
| `nodes`                 | int     | The number of nodes passed in.
| `similarityPairs`       | int     | The number of pairs of similar nodes computed.
| `write`                 | boolean | Indicates whether results were stored.
| `writeRelationshipType` | string  | The relationship type used when storing results.
| `writeProperty`         | string  | The property used when storing results.
| `min`                   | double  | The minimum similarity score computed.
| `max`                   | double  | The maximum similarity score computed.
| `mean`                  | double  | The mean of similarities scores computed.
| `stdDev`                | double  | The standard deviation of similarities scores computed.
| `p25`                   | double  | The 25 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p50`                   | double  | The 50 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p75`                   | double  | The 75 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p90`                   | double  | The 90 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p95`                   | double  | The 95 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p99`                   | double  | The 99 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p999`                  | double  | The 99.9 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p100`                  | double  | The 100 percentile of similarities scores computed.
|===

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.similarity.pearson.stream(userData:List<Map>> or String, {
    degreeCutoff: 10, similarityCutoff: 0.1, concurrency:4
})
YIELD item1, item2, count1, count2, intersection, similarity

----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name             | Type   | Default        | Optional | Description
| `data`                   | list or string    | null           | no       | A list of maps of the following structure: `{item: nodeId, categories: [nodeId, nodeId, nodeId]}` or a Cypher query.
| `top`              | int    | 0              | yes      | The number of similar pairs to return. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `topK`             | int    | 0              | yes      | The number of similar values to return per node. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `similarityCutoff` | int    | -1             | yes      | The threshold for similarity. Values below this will not be returned.
| `degreeCutoff`     | int    | 0              | yes      | The threshold for the number of items in the `targets` list. If the list contains less than this amount, that node will be excluded from the calculation.
| `skipValue`              | double  | algo.NaN()     | yes      | Value to skip when executing similarity computation. A value of `null` means that skipping is disabled.
| `concurrency`      | int    | available CPUs | yes      | The number of concurrent threads.
| `graph`                  | string  | dense          | yes      | The graph name ('dense' or 'cypher').
| `sourceIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items from which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `targetIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items to which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name         | Type | Description
| `item1`      | int  | The ID of one node in the similarity pair.
| `item2`      | int  | The ID of other node in the similarity pair.
| `count1`       | int  | The size of the `targets` list of one node.
| `count2`       | int  | The size of the `targets` list of other node.
| `intersection` | int  | The number of intersecting values in the two nodes `targets` lists.
| `similarity`   | int  | The cosine similarity of the two nodes.
|===
