doc/asciidoc/experimental-strongly-connected-components.adoc, before:

[[experimental-algorithms-strongly-connected-components]]
= The Strongly Connected Components algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Strongly Connected Components algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

// tag::introduction[]
The Strongly Connected Components (SCC) algorithm finds sets of connected nodes in a directed graph where each node is reachable in both directions from any other node in the same set.
It is often used early in a graph analysis process to help us get an idea of how our graph is structured.
// end::introduction[]

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-strongly-connected-components-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-strongly-connected-components-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the Strongly Connected Components algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-strongly-connected-components-sample, Strongly Connected Components algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithms-strongly-connected-components-hgp, Huge graph projection>>
* <<algorithms-strongly-connected-components-cp, Cypher projection>>
* <<algorithms-strongly-connected-components-syntax, Syntax>>
* <<algorithms-strongly-connected-components-imp, Implementations>>


[[algorithms-strongly-connected-components-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]
SCC is one of the earliest graph algorithms, and the first linear-time algorithm was described by Tarjan in 1972.
Decomposing a directed graph into its strongly connected components is a classic application of the depth-first search algorithm.
// end::explanation[]


[[algorithms-strongly-connected-components-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the Strongly Connected Components algorithm

// tag::use-case[]
* In the analysis of powerful transnational corporations, SCC can be used to find the set of firms in which every member owns directly and/or indirectly owns shares in every other member.
  Although it has benefits, such as reducing transaction costs and increasing trust, this type of structure can weaken market competition.
  Read more in http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article/file?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0025995&type=printable["The Network of Global Corporate Control"^].
* SCC can be used to compute the connectivity of different network configurations when measuring routing performance in multihop wireless networks.
  Read more in https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=513803["Routing performance in the presence of unidirectional links in multihop wireless networks"^]
* Strongly Connected Components algorithms can be used as a first step in many graph algorithms that work only on strongly connected graph.
  In social networks, a group of people are generally strongly connected (For example, students of a class or any other common place).
  Many people in these groups generally like some common pages, or play common games.
  The SCC algorithms can be used to find such groups, and suggest the commonly liked pages or games to the people in the group who have not yet liked those pages or games.
// end::use-case[]


[[algorithms-strongly-connected-components-sample]]
== Strongly Connected Components algorithm sample

image::strongly_connected_components.png[]

A directed graph is strongly connected if there is a path between all pairs of vertices.
This algorithm treats the graph as directed, which means that the direction of the relationship is important.
A strongly connected component only exists if there are relationships between nodes in both direction.

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/strongly-connected-components.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/strongly-connected-components.cypher[tag=write-sample-graph]
----

// tag::stream-sample-graph-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name    | Partition
| Alice   | 1
| Bridget | 1
| Michael | 1
| Charles | 0
| Doug    | 2
| Mark    | 2
|===
// end::stream-sample-graph-result[]

// tag::stream-sample-graph-explanation[]
We have 3 strongly connected components in our sample graph.

The first, and biggest, component has members Alice, Bridget, and Michael, while the second component has Doug and Mark.
Charles ends up in his own component because there isn't an outgoing relationship from that node to any of the others.
// end::stream-sample-graph-explanation[]

.The following will find the largest partition:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/strongly-connected-components.cypher[tag=get-largest-component]
----


[[algorithms-strongly-connected-components-hgp]]
== Huge graph projection

include::huge-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'huge'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/strongly-connected-components.cypher[tag=huge-projection]
----


[[algorithms-strongly-connected-components-cp]]
== Cypher projection

include::projected-graph-model/cypher-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'cypher'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/strongly-connected-components.cypher[tag=cypher-loading]
----


[[algorithms-strongly-connected-components-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.scc(label:String, relationship:String,
    {write:true,writeProperty:'partition',concurrency:4, graph:'heavy'})
YIELD loadMillis, computeMillis, writeMillis, setCount, maxSetSize, minSetSize
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name              | Type    | Default        | Optional | Description
| label             | string  | null           | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| relationship      | string  | null           | yes      | The relationship-type to load from the graph. If null, load all relationships
| write             | boolean | true           | yes      | Specifies if the result should be written back as a node property
| writeProperty | string  | 'partition'    | yes      | The property name written back to
| concurrency       | int     | available CPUs | yes      | The number of concurrent threads
| graph             | string  | 'heavy'        | yes      | Use 'heavy' when describing the subset of the graph with label and relationship-type parameter. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset with cypher node-statement and relationship-statement
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name          | Type | Description
| loadMillis    | int  | Milliseconds for loading data
| computeMillis | int  | Milliseconds for running the algorithm
| writeMillis   | int  | Milliseconds for writing result data back
| postProcessingMillis    | int  | Milliseconds for computing percentiles and community count

| nodes | int | The number of nodes considered
| communityCount | int  | The number of communities found

| p1                   | double  | The 1 percentile of community size.
| p5                   | double  | The 5 percentile of community size.
| p10                   | double  | The 10 percentile of community size.
| p25                   | double  | The 25 percentile of community size.
| p50                   | double  | The 50 percentile of community size.
| p75                   | double  | The 75 percentile of community size.
| p90                   | double  | The 90 percentile of community size.
| p95                   | double  | The 95 percentile of community size.
| p99                   | double  | The 99 percentile of community size.
| p100                  | double  | The 100 percentile of community size.

| write | boolean | Specifies if the result was written back as a node property
| writeProperty | string | The property name written back to

|===

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.scc.stream(label:String, relationship:String, {concurrency:4})
YIELD nodeId, partition
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name         | Type   | Default        | Optional | Description
| label        | string | null           | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| relationship | string | null           | yes      | The relationship-type to load from the graph. If null, load all relationships
| concurrency  | int    | available CPUs | yes      | The number of concurrent threads
| graph        | string | 'heavy'        | yes      | Use 'heavy' when describing the subset of the graph with label and relationship-type parameter. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset with cypher node-statement and relationship-statement
|===

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Name      | Type | Description
| nodeId    | int  | Node ID
| partition | int  | Partition ID
|===


[[algorithms-strongly-connected-components-imp]]
== Implementations

`algo.scc`

* *Iterative* adaptation (same as `algo.scc.iterative`).

`algo.scc.recursive.tarjan`

* Original *recursive* tarjan implementation.

`algo.scc.recursive.tunedTarjan`

* Also a *recursive* tarjan implementation.

`algo.scc.iterative`

* *Iterative* adaption of tarjan algorithm.

`algo.scc.multistep`

* Parallel SCC algorithm.


ifndef::env-docs[]
== References

// tag::references[]

* https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/61db/6892a92d1d5bdc83e52cc18041613cf895fa.pdf

* http://code.activestate.com/recipes/578507-strongly-connected-components-of-a-directed-graph/

* http://www.sandia.gov/~srajama/publications/BFS_and_Coloring.pdf

// end::references[]
endif::env-docs[]

ifdef::implementation[]
// tag::implementation[]


== Implementation details

:leveloffset: +1
// copied from: https://github.com/neo4j-contrib/neo4j-graph-algorithms/issues/97

Strongly Connected Components (SCC) is a class algorithms for finding groups of nodes where each node is directly reachable from every other node in the group. There are several algorithms to compute the SCC. Our current implementation (still in graphtest project) implements _Tarjan's_ SCC algorithm.

## Progress

- [x] implement procedure
- [x] tests
- [x] edge case tests
- [x] simple benchmark
- [x] benchmark on bigger graphs
- [x] parallelization
- [x] evaluation
- [x] documentation


== Details


=== algo.scc.tarjan

- original *recursive* tarjan implementation
- result is a cluster-id at all nodes
- each cluster is a scc
- Builds sets of node-Ids which represent a strongly connected component within the graph. Also calculates minimum and maximum setSize as well as the count of distinct sets.


=== algo.scc.tunedTarjan

- also a recursive tarjan implementation
- result is a cluster-id at all nodes
- https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/61db/6892a92d1d5bdc83e52cc18041613cf895fa.pdf


=== algo.scc.iterative

- *iterative* adaption of tarjan algorithm
- result is a cluster-id at all nodes
- http://code.activestate.com/recipes/578507-strongly-connected-components-of-a-directed-graph/


=== algo.scc.multistep

- parallel scc algorithm
- composition of several scc algorithms (FWBW, coloring, tarjan)
- uses FWBW + coloring to find big scc's
- starts simple tarjan once the cutoff threshold is reached
- http://www.sandia.gov/~srajama/publications/BFS_and_Coloring.pdf


// end::implementation[]
endif::implementation[]

Commit message:

Add admonitions for all experimental algorithms

doc/asciidoc/experimental-strongly-connected-components.adoc, after:

[[experimental-algorithms-strongly-connected-components]]
= The Strongly Connected Components algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Strongly Connected Components algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

The Strongly Connected Components (SCC) algorithm finds sets of connected nodes in a directed graph where each node is reachable in both directions from any other node in the same set.
It is often used early in a graph analysis process to help us get an idea of how our graph is structured.

[WARNING]
--
The Strongly Connected Components algorithms are experimental and not officially supported.
--

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-strongly-connected-components-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-strongly-connected-components-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the Strongly Connected Components algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-strongly-connected-components-sample, Strongly Connected Components algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithms-strongly-connected-components-hgp, Huge graph projection>>
* <<algorithms-strongly-connected-components-cp, Cypher projection>>
* <<algorithms-strongly-connected-components-syntax, Syntax>>
* <<algorithms-strongly-connected-components-imp, Implementations>>


[[algorithms-strongly-connected-components-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]
SCC is one of the earliest graph algorithms, and the first linear-time algorithm was described by Tarjan in 1972.
Decomposing a directed graph into its strongly connected components is a classic application of the depth-first search algorithm.
// end::explanation[]


[[algorithms-strongly-connected-components-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the Strongly Connected Components algorithm

// tag::use-case[]
* In the analysis of powerful transnational corporations, SCC can be used to find the set of firms in which every member owns directly and/or indirectly owns shares in every other member.
  Although it has benefits, such as reducing transaction costs and increasing trust, this type of structure can weaken market competition.
  Read more in http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article/file?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0025995&type=printable["The Network of Global Corporate Control"^].
* SCC can be used to compute the connectivity of different network configurations when measuring routing performance in multihop wireless networks.
  Read more in https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=513803["Routing performance in the presence of unidirectional links in multihop wireless networks"^]
* Strongly Connected Components algorithms can be used as a first step in many graph algorithms that work only on strongly connected graph.
  In social networks, a group of people are generally strongly connected (For example, students of a class or any other common place).
  Many people in these groups generally like some common pages, or play common games.
  The SCC algorithms can be used to find such groups, and suggest the commonly liked pages or games to the people in the group who have not yet liked those pages or games.
// end::use-case[]


[[algorithms-strongly-connected-components-sample]]
== Strongly Connected Components algorithm sample

image::strongly_connected_components.png[]

A directed graph is strongly connected if there is a path between all pairs of vertices.
This algorithm treats the graph as directed, which means that the direction of the relationship is important.
A strongly connected component only exists if there are relationships between nodes in both direction.

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/strongly-connected-components.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/strongly-connected-components.cypher[tag=write-sample-graph]
----

// tag::stream-sample-graph-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name    | Partition
| Alice   | 1
| Bridget | 1
| Michael | 1
| Charles | 0
| Doug    | 2
| Mark    | 2
|===
// end::stream-sample-graph-result[]

// tag::stream-sample-graph-explanation[]
We have 3 strongly connected components in our sample graph.

The first, and biggest, component has members Alice, Bridget, and Michael, while the second component has Doug and Mark.
Charles ends up in his own component because there isn't an outgoing relationship from that node to any of the others.
// end::stream-sample-graph-explanation[]

.The following will find the largest partition:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/strongly-connected-components.cypher[tag=get-largest-component]
----


[[algorithms-strongly-connected-components-hgp]]
== Huge graph projection

include::huge-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'huge'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/strongly-connected-components.cypher[tag=huge-projection]
----


[[algorithms-strongly-connected-components-cp]]
== Cypher projection

include::projected-graph-model/cypher-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'cypher'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/strongly-connected-components.cypher[tag=cypher-loading]
----


[[algorithms-strongly-connected-components-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.scc(label:String, relationship:String,
    {write:true,writeProperty:'partition',concurrency:4, graph:'heavy'})
YIELD loadMillis, computeMillis, writeMillis, setCount, maxSetSize, minSetSize
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name              | Type    | Default        | Optional | Description
| label             | string  | null           | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| relationship      | string  | null           | yes      | The relationship-type to load from the graph. If null, load all relationships
| write             | boolean | true           | yes      | Specifies if the result should be written back as a node property
| writeProperty | string  | 'partition'    | yes      | The property name written back to
| concurrency       | int     | available CPUs | yes      | The number of concurrent threads
| graph             | string  | 'heavy'        | yes      | Use 'heavy' when describing the subset of the graph with label and relationship-type parameter. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset with cypher node-statement and relationship-statement
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name          | Type | Description
| loadMillis    | int  | Milliseconds for loading data
| computeMillis | int  | Milliseconds for running the algorithm
| writeMillis   | int  | Milliseconds for writing result data back
| postProcessingMillis    | int  | Milliseconds for computing percentiles and community count

| nodes | int | The number of nodes considered
| communityCount | int  | The number of communities found

| p1                   | double  | The 1 percentile of community size.
| p5                   | double  | The 5 percentile of community size.
| p10                   | double  | The 10 percentile of community size.
| p25                   | double  | The 25 percentile of community size.
| p50                   | double  | The 50 percentile of community size.
| p75                   | double  | The 75 percentile of community size.
| p90                   | double  | The 90 percentile of community size.
| p95                   | double  | The 95 percentile of community size.
| p99                   | double  | The 99 percentile of community size.
| p100                  | double  | The 100 percentile of community size.

| write | boolean | Specifies if the result was written back as a node property
| writeProperty | string | The property name written back to

|===

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.scc.stream(label:String, relationship:String, {concurrency:4})
YIELD nodeId, partition
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name         | Type   | Default        | Optional | Description
| label        | string | null           | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| relationship | string | null           | yes      | The relationship-type to load from the graph. If null, load all relationships
| concurrency  | int    | available CPUs | yes      | The number of concurrent threads
| graph        | string | 'heavy'        | yes      | Use 'heavy' when describing the subset of the graph with label and relationship-type parameter. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset with cypher node-statement and relationship-statement
|===

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Name      | Type | Description
| nodeId    | int  | Node ID
| partition | int  | Partition ID
|===


[[algorithms-strongly-connected-components-imp]]
== Implementations

`algo.scc`

* *Iterative* adaptation (same as `algo.scc.iterative`).

`algo.scc.recursive.tarjan`

* Original *recursive* tarjan implementation.

`algo.scc.recursive.tunedTarjan`

* Also a *recursive* tarjan implementation.

`algo.scc.iterative`

* *Iterative* adaption of tarjan algorithm.

`algo.scc.multistep`

* Parallel SCC algorithm.


ifndef::env-docs[]
== References

// tag::references[]

* https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/61db/6892a92d1d5bdc83e52cc18041613cf895fa.pdf

* http://code.activestate.com/recipes/578507-strongly-connected-components-of-a-directed-graph/

* http://www.sandia.gov/~srajama/publications/BFS_and_Coloring.pdf

// end::references[]
endif::env-docs[]

ifdef::implementation[]
// tag::implementation[]


== Implementation details

:leveloffset: +1
// copied from: https://github.com/neo4j-contrib/neo4j-graph-algorithms/issues/97

Strongly Connected Components (SCC) is a class algorithms for finding groups of nodes where each node is directly reachable from every other node in the group. There are several algorithms to compute the SCC. Our current implementation (still in graphtest project) implements _Tarjan's_ SCC algorithm.

## Progress

- [x] implement procedure
- [x] tests
- [x] edge case tests
- [x] simple benchmark
- [x] benchmark on bigger graphs
- [x] parallelization
- [x] evaluation
- [x] documentation


== Details


=== algo.scc.tarjan

- original *recursive* tarjan implementation
- result is a cluster-id at all nodes
- each cluster is a scc
- Builds sets of node-Ids which represent a strongly connected component within the graph. Also calculates minimum and maximum setSize as well as the count of distinct sets.


=== algo.scc.tunedTarjan

- also a recursive tarjan implementation
- result is a cluster-id at all nodes
- https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/61db/6892a92d1d5bdc83e52cc18041613cf895fa.pdf


=== algo.scc.iterative

- *iterative* adaption of tarjan algorithm
- result is a cluster-id at all nodes
- http://code.activestate.com/recipes/578507-strongly-connected-components-of-a-directed-graph/


=== algo.scc.multistep

- parallel scc algorithm
- composition of several scc algorithms (FWBW, coloring, tarjan)
- uses FWBW + coloring to find big scc's
- starts simple tarjan once the cutoff threshold is reached
- http://www.sandia.gov/~srajama/publications/BFS_and_Coloring.pdf


// end::implementation[]
endif::implementation[]
