doc/asciidoc/experimental-one-hot-encoding.adoc, before:

[[experimental-algorithms-one-hot-encoding]]
= One Hot Encoding

[abstract]
--
This section describes the One Hot Encoding function in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

// tag::introduction[]
The One Hot Encoding function is used to convert categorical data into a numerical format that can be used by Machine Learning libraries.
// end::introduction[]

[[algorithms-one-hot-encoding-sample]]
== One Hot Encoding sample

One hot encoding will return a list equal to the length of the `available values`.
In the list, `selected values` are represented by `1`, and `unselected values` are represented by `0`.

.The following will run the algorithm on hardcoded lists:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/one-hot-encoding.cypher[tag=basic]
----

// tag::basic-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `vector`
| [0,0,1]
|===
// end::basic-result[]

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/one-hot-encoding.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will return a one hot encoding for each user and the types of cuisine that they like:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/one-hot-encoding.cypher[tag=one-hot-encoding-query]
----

// tag::stream-sample-graph-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name     | Embedding
| Arya     | [0,0,0]
| Michael  | [1,0,1]
| Praveena | [0,1,0]
| Zhen     | [1,0,0]
|===
// end::stream-sample-graph-result[]

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name              | Type    | Default        | Optional | Description
| `availableValues`   | list    | null           | yes      | The available values. If null, the function will return an empty list.
| `selectedValues`    | list    | null           | yes      | The selected values. If null, the function will return a list of all 0's.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,6"]
|===
| Type | Description
| `list` | One hot encoding of the selected values.
|===

Commit message:

Add admonitions for all experimental algorithms

doc/asciidoc/experimental-one-hot-encoding.adoc, after:

[[experimental-algorithms-one-hot-encoding]]
= One Hot Encoding

[abstract]
--
This section describes the One Hot Encoding function in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

The One Hot Encoding function is used to convert categorical data into a numerical format that can be used by Machine Learning libraries.

[WARNING]
--
The One Hot Encoding function is experimental and not officially supported.
--

[[algorithms-one-hot-encoding-sample]]
== One Hot Encoding sample

One hot encoding will return a list equal to the length of the `available values`.
In the list, `selected values` are represented by `1`, and `unselected values` are represented by `0`.

.The following will run the algorithm on hardcoded lists:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/one-hot-encoding.cypher[tag=basic]
----

// tag::basic-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `vector`
| [0,0,1]
|===
// end::basic-result[]

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/one-hot-encoding.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will return a one hot encoding for each user and the types of cuisine that they like:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/one-hot-encoding.cypher[tag=one-hot-encoding-query]
----

// tag::stream-sample-graph-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name     | Embedding
| Arya     | [0,0,0]
| Michael  | [1,0,1]
| Praveena | [0,1,0]
| Zhen     | [1,0,0]
|===
// end::stream-sample-graph-result[]

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name              | Type    | Default        | Optional | Description
| `availableValues`   | list    | null           | yes      | The available values. If null, the function will return an empty list.
| `selectedValues`    | list    | null           | yes      | The selected values. If null, the function will return a list of all 0's.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,6"]
|===
| Type | Description
| `list` | One hot encoding of the selected values.
|===
