doc/asciidoc/experimental-similarity-jaccard.adoc, before:

[[experimental-algorithms-similarity-jaccard]]
= The Jaccard Similarity algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Jaccard Similarity algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

// tag::introduction[]
Jaccard Similarity (coefficient), a term coined by https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_Jaccard[Paul Jaccard^], measures similarities between sets.
It is defined as the size of the intersection divided by the size of the union of two sets.
// end::introduction[]

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-similarity-jaccard-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-jaccard-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the Jaccard Similarity algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-jaccard-function-sample, Jaccard Similarity algorithm function sample>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-jaccard-procedure-sample, Jaccard Similarity algorithm procedures sample>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-jaccard-source-target-ids, Specifying source and target ids>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-jaccard-syntax, Syntax>>

[[algorithms-similarity-jaccard-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]

Jaccard similarity is computed using the following formula:

image::jaccard.png[role="middle"]

// This is the raw information for this image:
// ```
// J(A,B) = ∣A ∩ B∣ / ∣(A ∪ B)∣
//        = ∣A ∩ B∣ / ∣A∣ + ∣B∣ - ∣A ∩ B|
// ```

The library contains both procedures and functions to calculate similarity between sets of data.
The function is best used when calculating the similarity between small numbers of sets.
The procedures parallelize the computation, and are therefore more appropriate for computing similarities on bigger datasets.

// end::explanation[]

[[algorithms-similarity-jaccard-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the Jaccard Similarity algorithm

// tag::use-case[]
We can use the Jaccard Similarity algorithm to work out the similarity between two things.
We might then use the computed similarity as part of a recommendation query.
For example, you can use the Jaccard Similarity algorithm to show the products that were purchased by similar customers, in terms of previous products purchased.
// end::use-case[]


[[algorithms-similarity-jaccard-function-sample]]
== Jaccard Similarity algorithm function sample

The Jaccard similarity function computes the similarity of two lists of numbers.

We can use it to compute the similarity of two hardcoded lists.

.The following will return the Jaccard similarity of two lists of numbers:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=function]
----

// tag::function[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `similarity`
| 0.4
|===
// end::function[]

// tag::function-explanation[]
These two lists of numbers have a Jaccard similarity of 0.4.
We can see how this result is derived by breaking down the formula:

```
J(A,B) = ∣A ∩ B∣ / ∣A∣ + ∣B∣ - ∣A ∩ B|
J(A,B) = 2 / 3 + 4 - 2
       = 2 / 5
       = 0.4
```
// end::function-explanation[]

We can also use it to compute the similarity of nodes based on lists computed by a Cypher query.

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will return the Jaccard similarity of Karin and Arya:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=function-cypher]
----

// tag::function-cypher[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`       | `to`         | `similarity`
| "Karin" | "Arya" | 0.66

|===
// end::function-cypher[]

.The following will return the Jaccard similarity of Karin and the other people that have a cuisine in common:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=function-cypher-all]
----

// tag::function-cypher--all[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`       | `to`         | `similarity`
| "Karin" | "Arya"     | 0.66
| "Karin" | "Michael"  | 0.25
| "Karin" | "Praveena" | 0.0
| "Karin" | "Zhen"     | 0.0

|===
// end::function-cypher-all[]

[[algorithms-similarity-jaccard-procedure-sample]]
== Jaccard Similarity algorithm procedures sample

:procedure-name: Jaccard Similarity
include::experimental-similarity.adoc[tag=computation]

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph-procedure]
----

.The following will return a stream of node pairs along with their intersection and Jaccard similarities:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=stream]
----

// tag::stream[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1"]
|===
| From     | To       | Intersection | Similarity
| Arya     | Karin    | 2            | 0.66
| Zhen     | Michael  | 2            | 0.66
| Zhen     | Praveena | 1            | 0.33
| Michael  | Karin    | 1            | 0.25
| Praveena | Michael  | 1            | 0.25
| Praveena | Arya     | 1            | 0.25
| Michael  | Arya     | 1            | 0.2
| Praveena | Karin    | 0            | 0
| Zhen     | Arya     | 0            | 0
| Zhen     | Karin    | 0            | 0
|===
// end::stream[]

Arya and Karin, and Zhen and Michael have the most similar food preferences, with two overlapping cuisines for a similarity of 0.66.
We also have 3 pairs of users who are not similar at all.
We'd probably want to filter those out, which we can do by passing in the `similarityCutoff` parameter.

.The following will return a stream of node pairs that have a similarity of at least 0.1, along with their intersection and Jaccard similarities:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=stream-similarity-cutoff]
----

// tag::stream-similarity-cutoff[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1"]
|===
| `from`   | `to`     | `intersection` | `similarity`
| Arya     | Karin    | 2              | 0.66
| Zhen     | Michael  | 2              | 0.66
| Zhen     | Praveena | 1              | 0.33
| Michael  | Karin    | 1              | 0.25
| Praveena | Michael  | 1              | 0.25
| Praveena | Arya     | 1              | 0.25
| Michael  | Arya     | 1              | 0.2
|===
// end::stream-similarity-cutoff[]

We can see that those users with no similarity have been filtered out.
If we're implementing a k-Nearest Neighbors type query we might instead want to find the most similar `k` users for a given user.
We can do that by passing in the `topK` parameter.

.The following will return a stream of users along with the most similar user to them (i.e. `k=1`):
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=stream-topk]
----

// tag::stream-topk[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1"]
|===
| `from`   | `to`     | `similarity`
| Arya     | Karin    | 0.66
| Karin    | Arya     | 0.66
| Michael  | Zhen     | 0.66
| Praveena | Zhen     | 0.33
| Zhen     | Michael  | 0.66
|===
// end::stream-topk[]

These results will not be symmetrical.
For example, the person most similar to Praveena is Zhen, but the person most similar to Zhen is actually Michael.



.The following will find the most similar user for each user, and store a relationship between those users:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=write-back]
----

// tag::write-back[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| `nodes` | `similarityPairs` | `write` | `writeRelationshipType` | `writeProperty` | `min`  | `max`  | `mean` | `p95`
| 5       | 5                 | true    | SIMILAR                 | score           | 0.33   | 0.66   | 0.59   | 0.66
|===
// end::write-back[]

We then could write a query to find out what types of cuisine that other people similar to us might like.

.The following will find the most similar user to Praveena, and return their favorite cuisines that Praveena doesn't (yet!) like:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=query]
----

// tag::query[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `cuisine`
| French
|===
// end::query[]

[[algorithms-similarity-jaccard-source-target-ids]]
== Specifying source and target ids

include::experimental-similarity.adoc[tag=source-target-ids]

We might want to use this technique when comparing nodes with different labels that intersect on a common label.
In our sample dataset, recipes and people both have relationships to cuisines, which means we have a way of computing similarities between recipes and people.

.The following will find similarities between recipes and people, based on the cuisines that they have in common:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=source-target-ids]
----

// tag::source-target-ids[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1"]
|===
| `from`   | `to`     | `similarity`
| Peri Peri Naan         | Praveena | 1.0
| Shrimp Bolognese       | Michael  | 0.6666666666666666
| Saltimbocca alla roman | Michael  | 0.6666666666666666
| Peri Peri Naan         | Zhen     | 0.3333333333333333
| Shrimp Bolognese       | Karin    | 0.3333333333333333
| Shrimp Bolognese       | Praveena | 0.3333333333333333
| Saltimbocca alla roman | Zhen     | 0.3333333333333333
| Shrimp Bolognese       | Zhen     | 0.3333333333333333
| Saltimbocca alla roman | Karin    | 0.3333333333333333
| Peri Peri Naan         | Arya     | 0.25
|===
// end::source-target-ids[]

The Peri Peri Naan and Praveena have a perfect score of 1.0 because they overlap via Portuguese and Indian cuisines.
Michael likes French, Indian, and Italian food, and two of the fusion recipes combine two of those cuisines, giving us a score of 0.66.

We could also use this technique to compute the similarity of a subset of items to all other items.

.The following will find the most similar person (i.e. `k=1`) to Arya and Praveena:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=source-target-ids-2]
----

// tag::source-target-ids-2[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1"]
|===
| `from`   | `to`     | `similarity`
| Arya     | Karin | 0.6666666666666666 
| Praveena | Zhen  | 0.3333333333333333 
|===
// end::source-target-ids-2[]

[[algorithms-similarity-jaccard-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.similarity.jaccard(userData:List<Map>, {
    topK: 1, similarityCutoff: 0.1, write:true, writeProperty: "jaccardSimilarity"
})
YIELD nodes, similarityPairs, write, writeRelationshipType, writeProperty, min, max, mean, stdDev, p25, p50, p75, p90, p95, p99, p999, p100
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name                     | Type    | Default        | Optional | Description
| `data`                   | list    | null           | no       | A list of maps of the following structure: `{item: nodeId, categories: [nodeId, nodeId, nodeId]}`
| `top`                    | int     | 0              | yes      | The number of similar pairs to return. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `topK`                   | int     | 0              | yes      | The number of similar values to return per node. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `similarityCutoff`       | int     | -1             | yes      | The threshold for Jaccard similarity. Values below this will not be returned.
| `degreeCutoff`           | int     | 0              | yes      | The threshold for the number of items in the `targets` list. If the list contains less than this amount, that node will be excluded from the calculation.
| `concurrency`            | int     | available CPUs | yes      | The number of concurrent threads.
| `write`                  | boolean | false          | yes      | Indicates whether results should be stored.
| `writeBatchSize`            | int     | 10000 | yes      | The batch size to use when storing results.
| `writeRelationshipType`  | string  | SIMILAR        | yes      | The relationship type to use when storing results.
| `writeProperty`          | string  | score          | yes      | The property to use when storing results.
| `sourceIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items from which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `targetIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items to which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `sourceIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items from which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `targetIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items to which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name                    | Type    | Description
| `nodes`                 | int     | The number of nodes passed in.
| `similarityPairs`       | int     | The number of pairs of similar nodes computed.
| `write`                 | boolean | Indicates whether results were stored.
| `writeRelationshipType` | string  | The relationship type used when storing results.
| `writeProperty`         | string  | The property used when storing results.
| `min`                   | double  | The minimum similarity score computed.
| `max`                   | double  | The maximum similarity score computed.
| `mean`                  | double  | The mean of similarities scores computed.
| `stdDev`                | double  | The standard deviation of similarities scores computed.
| `p25`                   | double  | The 25 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p50`                   | double  | The 50 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p75`                   | double  | The 75 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p90`                   | double  | The 90 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p95`                   | double  | The 95 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p99`                   | double  | The 99 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p999`                  | double  | The 99.9 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p100`                  | double  | The 25 percentile of similarities scores computed.
|===

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.similarity.jaccard.stream(userData:List<Map>, {
    degreeCutoff: 10, similarityCutoff: 0.1, concurrency:4
})
YIELD item1, item2, count1, count2, intersection, similarity

----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name               | Type   | Default        | Optional | Description
| `data`             | list   | null           | no       | A list of maps of the following structure: `{item: nodeId, categories: [nodeId, nodeId, nodeId]}`
| `top`              | int    | 0              | yes      | The number of similar pairs to return. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `topK`             | int    | 0              | yes      | The number of similar values to return per node. If `0`, it  will return as many as it finds.
| `similarityCutoff` | int    | -1             | yes      | The threshold for Jaccard similarity. Values below this will not be returned.
| `degreeCutoff`     | int    | 0              | yes      | The threshold for the number of items in the `targets` list. If the list contains less than this amount, that node will be excluded from the calculation.
| `concurrency`      | int    | available CPUs | yes      | The number of concurrent threads.
| `sourceIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items from which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `targetIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items to which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `sourceIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items from which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `targetIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items to which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name           | Type | Description
| `item1`        | int  | The ID of one node in the similarity pair.
| `item2`        | int  | The ID of other node in the similarity pair.
| `count1`       | int  | The size of the `targets` list of one node.
| `count2`       | int  | The size of the `targets` list of other node.
| `intersection` | int  | The number of intersecting values in the two nodes `targets` lists.
| `similarity`   | int  | The Jaccard similarity of the two nodes.
|===

Commit message:

Add admonitions for all experimental algorithms

doc/asciidoc/experimental-similarity-jaccard.adoc, after:

[[experimental-algorithms-similarity-jaccard]]
= The Jaccard Similarity algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Jaccard Similarity algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

Jaccard Similarity (coefficient), a term coined by https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_Jaccard[Paul Jaccard^], measures similarities between sets.
It is defined as the size of the intersection divided by the size of the union of two sets.

[WARNING]
--
The Jaccard Similarity algorithm is experimental and not officially supported.
--

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-similarity-jaccard-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-jaccard-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the Jaccard Similarity algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-jaccard-function-sample, Jaccard Similarity algorithm function sample>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-jaccard-procedure-sample, Jaccard Similarity algorithm procedures sample>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-jaccard-source-target-ids, Specifying source and target ids>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-jaccard-syntax, Syntax>>

[[algorithms-similarity-jaccard-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]

Jaccard similarity is computed using the following formula:

image::jaccard.png[role="middle"]

// This is the raw information for this image:
// ```
// J(A,B) = ∣A ∩ B∣ / ∣(A ∪ B)∣
//        = ∣A ∩ B∣ / ∣A∣ + ∣B∣ - ∣A ∩ B|
// ```

The library contains both procedures and functions to calculate similarity between sets of data.
The function is best used when calculating the similarity between small numbers of sets.
The procedures parallelize the computation, and are therefore more appropriate for computing similarities on bigger datasets.

// end::explanation[]

[[algorithms-similarity-jaccard-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the Jaccard Similarity algorithm

// tag::use-case[]
We can use the Jaccard Similarity algorithm to work out the similarity between two things.
We might then use the computed similarity as part of a recommendation query.
For example, you can use the Jaccard Similarity algorithm to show the products that were purchased by similar customers, in terms of previous products purchased.
// end::use-case[]


[[algorithms-similarity-jaccard-function-sample]]
== Jaccard Similarity algorithm function sample

The Jaccard similarity function computes the similarity of two lists of numbers.

We can use it to compute the similarity of two hardcoded lists.

.The following will return the Jaccard similarity of two lists of numbers:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=function]
----

// tag::function[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `similarity`
| 0.4
|===
// end::function[]

// tag::function-explanation[]
These two lists of numbers have a Jaccard similarity of 0.4.
We can see how this result is derived by breaking down the formula:

```
J(A,B) = ∣A ∩ B∣ / ∣A∣ + ∣B∣ - ∣A ∩ B|
J(A,B) = 2 / 3 + 4 - 2
       = 2 / 5
       = 0.4
```
// end::function-explanation[]

We can also use it to compute the similarity of nodes based on lists computed by a Cypher query.

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will return the Jaccard similarity of Karin and Arya:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=function-cypher]
----

// tag::function-cypher[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`       | `to`         | `similarity`
| "Karin" | "Arya" | 0.66

|===
// end::function-cypher[]

.The following will return the Jaccard similarity of Karin and the other people that have a cuisine in common:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=function-cypher-all]
----

// tag::function-cypher--all[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`       | `to`         | `similarity`
| "Karin" | "Arya"     | 0.66
| "Karin" | "Michael"  | 0.25
| "Karin" | "Praveena" | 0.0
| "Karin" | "Zhen"     | 0.0

|===
// end::function-cypher-all[]

[[algorithms-similarity-jaccard-procedure-sample]]
== Jaccard Similarity algorithm procedures sample

:procedure-name: Jaccard Similarity
include::experimental-similarity.adoc[tag=computation]

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph-procedure]
----

.The following will return a stream of node pairs along with their intersection and Jaccard similarities:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=stream]
----

// tag::stream[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1"]
|===
| From     | To       | Intersection | Similarity
| Arya     | Karin    | 2            | 0.66
| Zhen     | Michael  | 2            | 0.66
| Zhen     | Praveena | 1            | 0.33
| Michael  | Karin    | 1            | 0.25
| Praveena | Michael  | 1            | 0.25
| Praveena | Arya     | 1            | 0.25
| Michael  | Arya     | 1            | 0.2
| Praveena | Karin    | 0            | 0
| Zhen     | Arya     | 0            | 0
| Zhen     | Karin    | 0            | 0
|===
// end::stream[]

Arya and Karin, and Zhen and Michael have the most similar food preferences, with two overlapping cuisines for a similarity of 0.66.
We also have 3 pairs of users who are not similar at all.
We'd probably want to filter those out, which we can do by passing in the `similarityCutoff` parameter.

.The following will return a stream of node pairs that have a similarity of at least 0.1, along with their intersection and Jaccard similarities:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=stream-similarity-cutoff]
----

// tag::stream-similarity-cutoff[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1"]
|===
| `from`   | `to`     | `intersection` | `similarity`
| Arya     | Karin    | 2              | 0.66
| Zhen     | Michael  | 2              | 0.66
| Zhen     | Praveena | 1              | 0.33
| Michael  | Karin    | 1              | 0.25
| Praveena | Michael  | 1              | 0.25
| Praveena | Arya     | 1              | 0.25
| Michael  | Arya     | 1              | 0.2
|===
// end::stream-similarity-cutoff[]

We can see that those users with no similarity have been filtered out.
If we're implementing a k-Nearest Neighbors type query we might instead want to find the most similar `k` users for a given user.
We can do that by passing in the `topK` parameter.

.The following will return a stream of users along with the most similar user to them (i.e. `k=1`):
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=stream-topk]
----

// tag::stream-topk[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1"]
|===
| `from`   | `to`     | `similarity`
| Arya     | Karin    | 0.66
| Karin    | Arya     | 0.66
| Michael  | Zhen     | 0.66
| Praveena | Zhen     | 0.33
| Zhen     | Michael  | 0.66
|===
// end::stream-topk[]

These results will not be symmetrical.
For example, the person most similar to Praveena is Zhen, but the person most similar to Zhen is actually Michael.



.The following will find the most similar user for each user, and store a relationship between those users:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=write-back]
----

// tag::write-back[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| `nodes` | `similarityPairs` | `write` | `writeRelationshipType` | `writeProperty` | `min`  | `max`  | `mean` | `p95`
| 5       | 5                 | true    | SIMILAR                 | score           | 0.33   | 0.66   | 0.59   | 0.66
|===
// end::write-back[]

We then could write a query to find out what types of cuisine that other people similar to us might like.

.The following will find the most similar user to Praveena, and return their favorite cuisines that Praveena doesn't (yet!) like:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=query]
----

// tag::query[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `cuisine`
| French
|===
// end::query[]

[[algorithms-similarity-jaccard-source-target-ids]]
== Specifying source and target ids

include::experimental-similarity.adoc[tag=source-target-ids]

We might want to use this technique when comparing nodes with different labels that intersect on a common label.
In our sample dataset, recipes and people both have relationships to cuisines, which means we have a way of computing similarities between recipes and people.

.The following will find similarities between recipes and people, based on the cuisines that they have in common:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=source-target-ids]
----

// tag::source-target-ids[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1"]
|===
| `from`   | `to`     | `similarity`
| Peri Peri Naan         | Praveena | 1.0
| Shrimp Bolognese       | Michael  | 0.6666666666666666
| Saltimbocca alla roman | Michael  | 0.6666666666666666
| Peri Peri Naan         | Zhen     | 0.3333333333333333
| Shrimp Bolognese       | Karin    | 0.3333333333333333
| Shrimp Bolognese       | Praveena | 0.3333333333333333
| Saltimbocca alla roman | Zhen     | 0.3333333333333333
| Shrimp Bolognese       | Zhen     | 0.3333333333333333
| Saltimbocca alla roman | Karin    | 0.3333333333333333
| Peri Peri Naan         | Arya     | 0.25
|===
// end::source-target-ids[]

The Peri Peri Naan and Praveena have a perfect score of 1.0 because they overlap via Portuguese and Indian cuisines.
Michael likes French, Indian, and Italian food, and two of the fusion recipes combine two of those cuisines, giving us a score of 0.66.

We could also use this technique to compute the similarity of a subset of items to all other items.

.The following will find the most similar person (i.e. `k=1`) to Arya and Praveena:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-jaccard.cypher[tag=source-target-ids-2]
----

// tag::source-target-ids-2[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1"]
|===
| `from`   | `to`     | `similarity`
| Arya     | Karin | 0.6666666666666666 
| Praveena | Zhen  | 0.3333333333333333 
|===
// end::source-target-ids-2[]

[[algorithms-similarity-jaccard-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.similarity.jaccard(userData:List<Map>, {
    topK: 1, similarityCutoff: 0.1, write:true, writeProperty: "jaccardSimilarity"
})
YIELD nodes, similarityPairs, write, writeRelationshipType, writeProperty, min, max, mean, stdDev, p25, p50, p75, p90, p95, p99, p999, p100
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name                     | Type    | Default        | Optional | Description
| `data`                   | list    | null           | no       | A list of maps of the following structure: `{item: nodeId, categories: [nodeId, nodeId, nodeId]}`
| `top`                    | int     | 0              | yes      | The number of similar pairs to return. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `topK`                   | int     | 0              | yes      | The number of similar values to return per node. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `similarityCutoff`       | int     | -1             | yes      | The threshold for Jaccard similarity. Values below this will not be returned.
| `degreeCutoff`           | int     | 0              | yes      | The threshold for the number of items in the `targets` list. If the list contains less than this amount, that node will be excluded from the calculation.
| `concurrency`            | int     | available CPUs | yes      | The number of concurrent threads.
| `write`                  | boolean | false          | yes      | Indicates whether results should be stored.
| `writeBatchSize`            | int     | 10000 | yes      | The batch size to use when storing results.
| `writeRelationshipType`  | string  | SIMILAR        | yes      | The relationship type to use when storing results.
| `writeProperty`          | string  | score          | yes      | The property to use when storing results.
| `sourceIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items from which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `targetIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items to which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `sourceIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items from which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `targetIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items to which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name                    | Type    | Description
| `nodes`                 | int     | The number of nodes passed in.
| `similarityPairs`       | int     | The number of pairs of similar nodes computed.
| `write`                 | boolean | Indicates whether results were stored.
| `writeRelationshipType` | string  | The relationship type used when storing results.
| `writeProperty`         | string  | The property used when storing results.
| `min`                   | double  | The minimum similarity score computed.
| `max`                   | double  | The maximum similarity score computed.
| `mean`                  | double  | The mean of similarities scores computed.
| `stdDev`                | double  | The standard deviation of similarities scores computed.
| `p25`                   | double  | The 25 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p50`                   | double  | The 50 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p75`                   | double  | The 75 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p90`                   | double  | The 90 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p95`                   | double  | The 95 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p99`                   | double  | The 99 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p999`                  | double  | The 99.9 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p100`                  | double  | The 25 percentile of similarities scores computed.
|===

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.similarity.jaccard.stream(userData:List<Map>, {
    degreeCutoff: 10, similarityCutoff: 0.1, concurrency:4
})
YIELD item1, item2, count1, count2, intersection, similarity

----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name               | Type   | Default        | Optional | Description
| `data`             | list   | null           | no       | A list of maps of the following structure: `{item: nodeId, categories: [nodeId, nodeId, nodeId]}`
| `top`              | int    | 0              | yes      | The number of similar pairs to return. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `topK`             | int    | 0              | yes      | The number of similar values to return per node. If `0`, it  will return as many as it finds.
| `similarityCutoff` | int    | -1             | yes      | The threshold for Jaccard similarity. Values below this will not be returned.
| `degreeCutoff`     | int    | 0              | yes      | The threshold for the number of items in the `targets` list. If the list contains less than this amount, that node will be excluded from the calculation.
| `concurrency`      | int    | available CPUs | yes      | The number of concurrent threads.
| `sourceIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items from which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `targetIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items to which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `sourceIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items from which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `targetIds`          | long[] | null | yes | The ids of items to which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name           | Type | Description
| `item1`        | int  | The ID of one node in the similarity pair.
| `item2`        | int  | The ID of other node in the similarity pair.
| `count1`       | int  | The size of the `targets` list of one node.
| `count2`       | int  | The size of the `targets` list of other node.
| `intersection` | int  | The number of intersecting values in the two nodes `targets` lists.
| `similarity`   | int  | The Jaccard similarity of the two nodes.
|===
