doc/asciidoc/index.adoc, before:

= The Neo4j Graph Algorithms User Guide v{docs-version}
:toc: left
:experimental:
:sectid:
:sectlinks:
:toclevels: 2
:env-docs: true

ifdef::backend-html5[(C) {copyright}]
ifndef::backend-pdf[]

License: link:{common-license-page-uri}[Creative Commons 4.0]
endif::[]
ifdef::backend-pdf[]
(C) {copyright}

License: <<license, Creative Commons 4.0>>
endif::[]



[abstract]
--
This is the user guide for Neo4j Graph Algorithms version {docs-version}, authored by the Neo4j Team.
--

The guide covers the following areas:

* <<introduction>> -- An introduction to Neo4j Graph Algorithms.
* <<projected-graph-model>> -- A detailed guide to the projected graph model.
* <<yelp-example>> -- An illustration of how to use graph algorithms on a social network of friends.
* <<procedures>> -- A list of Neo4j Graph Algorithm procedures.
* <<algorithms-centrality>> -- A detailed guide to each of the centrality algorithms, including use-cases and examples.
* <<algorithms-community>> -- A detailed guide to each of the community detection algorithms, including use-cases and examples.


In addition to the above algorithms, there are a large number of experimental algorithm implementations developed as part of Neo4j Labs.
The Neo4j Labs algorithms are documented in <<experimental-algorithms>>.

====
image::download_book.png[Graph Algorithms,200]

Graph Algorithms: Practical Examples in Apache Spark and Neo4j, by Mark Needham & Amy E. Hodler and published by O'Reilly Media is available now.

Download it for free at https://neo4j.com/graph-algorithms-book/[neo4j.com/graph-algorithms-book/].
====

include::introduction.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::projected-graph-model.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::yelp-example.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::procedures.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::algorithms-centrality.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::algorithms-community.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::experimental-algorithms.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

ifndef::env-docs[]
include::implementation-index.adoc[]
endif::env-docs[]

// ifdef::backend-html5[]
// ++++
// <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://cdn.datatables.net/1.10.13/css/jquery.dataTables.min.css">
// <script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-1.12.4.js"></script>
// <script src="https://cdn.datatables.net/1.10.13/js/jquery.dataTables.min.js"></script>
// <script>
// $(document).ready(function() {
//     $('#table-all').DataTable();
// } );
// </script>
// ++++
// endif::[]

Commit message:

Fix download link and enureate experimental algo groups

doc/asciidoc/index.adoc, after:

= The Neo4j Graph Algorithms User Guide v{docs-version}
:toc: left
:experimental:
:sectid:
:sectlinks:
:toclevels: 2
:env-docs: true

ifdef::backend-html5[(C) {copyright}]
ifndef::backend-pdf[]

License: link:{common-license-page-uri}[Creative Commons 4.0]
endif::[]
ifdef::backend-pdf[]
(C) {copyright}

License: <<license, Creative Commons 4.0>>
endif::[]



[abstract]
--
This is the user guide for Neo4j Graph Algorithms version {docs-version}, authored by the Neo4j Team.
--

The guide covers the following areas:

* <<introduction>> -- An introduction to Neo4j Graph Algorithms.
* <<projected-graph-model>> -- A detailed guide to the projected graph model.
* <<yelp-example>> -- An illustration of how to use graph algorithms on a social network of friends.
* <<procedures>> -- A list of Neo4j Graph Algorithm procedures.
* <<algorithms-centrality>> -- A detailed guide to each of the centrality algorithms, including use-cases and examples.
* <<algorithms-community>> -- A detailed guide to each of the community detection algorithms, including use-cases and examples.


In addition to the above algorithms, there are a large number of experimental algorithm implementations developed as part of Neo4j Labs.
These include experimental centrality and community algorithms, as well as experimental algorithms for link prediction, path finding and similarity.
The Neo4j Labs algorithms are documented in <<experimental-algorithms>>.

====
image::download_book.png[Graph Algorithms,200]

Graph Algorithms: Practical Examples in Apache Spark and Neo4j, by Mark Needham & Amy E. Hodler and published by O'Reilly Media is available now.

Download it for free at https://neo4j.com/graph-algorithms-book/[neo4j.com/graph-algorithms-book/].
====

include::introduction.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::projected-graph-model.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::yelp-example.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::procedures.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::algorithms-centrality.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::algorithms-community.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::experimental-algorithms.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

ifndef::env-docs[]
include::implementation-index.adoc[]
endif::env-docs[]

// ifdef::backend-html5[]
// ++++
// <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://cdn.datatables.net/1.10.13/css/jquery.dataTables.min.css">
// <script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-1.12.4.js"></script>
// <script src="https://cdn.datatables.net/1.10.13/js/jquery.dataTables.min.js"></script>
// <script>
// $(document).ready(function() {
//     $('#table-all').DataTable();
// } );
// </script>
// ++++
// endif::[]
