doc/asciidoc/labs-similarity-euclidean.adoc, before:

:procedure-name: Euclidean Distance

[[labs-algorithms-similarity-euclidean]]
= The Euclidean Distance algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Euclidean Distance algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

Euclidean distance measures the straight line distance between two points in n-dimensional space.

[WARNING]
--
The Euclidean Distance algorithm is experimental and not officially supported.
--

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-similarity-euclidean-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-euclidean-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the Euclidean Distance algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-euclidean-function-sample, Euclidean Distance algorithm function sample>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-euclidean-procedure-sample, Euclidean Distance algorithm procedures sample>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-euclidean-source-target-ids, Specifying source and target ids>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-euclidean-skipping-values, Skipping values>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-euclidean-cypher-projection, Cypher projection>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-euclidean-syntax, Syntax>>


[[algorithms-similarity-euclidean-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]

Euclidean distance is computed using the following formula:

image::euclidean.png[role="middle"]

// This is the raw information for this image:
// [subs = none]
// \( similarity(p_1, p_2) = \sqrt{\sum_{i~\in~\textrm{item}} (s_{p_1} - s_{p_2})^2} \)

The library contains both procedures and functions to calculate similarity between sets of data.
The function is best used when calculating the similarity between small numbers of sets.
The procedures parallelize the computation and are therefore more appropriate for computing similarities on bigger datasets.

// end::explanation[]


[[algorithms-similarity-euclidean-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the Euclidean Distance algorithm

// tag::use-case[]
We can use the Euclidean Distance algorithm to work out the similarity between two things.
We might then use the computed similarity as part of a recommendation query.
For example, to get movie recommendations based on the preferences of users who have given similar ratings to other movies that you’ve seen.
// end::use-case[]


[[algorithms-similarity-euclidean-function-sample]]
== Euclidean Distance algorithm function sample

The Euclidean Distance function computes the similarity of two lists of numbers.

include::labs-similarity.adoc[tag=weighted-function-note]

We can use it to compute the similarity of two hardcoded lists.

.The following will return the euclidean similarity of two lists of numbers:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=function]
----

// tag::function[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `similarity`
| 8.426149773176359
|===
// end::function[]

// tag::function-explanation[]
These two lists of numbers have a euclidean distance of 8.42.

// end::function-explanation[]

We can also use it to compute the similarity of nodes based on lists computed by a Cypher query.

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will return the Euclidean distance of Zhen and Praveena:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=function-cypher]
----

// tag::function-cypher[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`       | `to`         | `similarity`
| "Zhen" | "Praveena" | 6.708203932499369

|===
// end::function-cypher[]

.The following will return the Euclidean distance  of Zhen and the other people that have a cuisine in common:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=function-cypher-all]
----

// tag::function-cypher--all[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`       | `to`         | `similarity`
| "Zhen" | "Praveena" | 6.708203932499369
| "Zhen" | "Michael"  | 3.605551275463989

|===
// end::function-cypher-all[]

[[algorithms-similarity-euclidean-procedure-sample]]
== Euclidean Distance algorithm procedures sample

include::labs-similarity.adoc[tag=computation]
include::labs-similarity.adoc[tag=weighted-note]

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will return a stream of node pairs, along with their intersection and euclidean similarities:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=stream]
----

// tag::stream[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`     | `to`       | `similarity`
| "Zhen"     | "Arya"     | 0.0
| "Zhen"     | "Karin"    | 0.0
| "Praveena" | "Karin"    | 3.0
| "Zhen"     | "Michael"  | 3.605551275463989
| "Praveena" | "Michael"  | 4.0
| "Arya"     | "Karin"    | 4.358898943540674
| "Michael"  | "Arya"     | 5.0
| "Zhen"     | "Praveena" | 6.708203932499369
| "Michael"  | "Karin"    | 7.0
| "Praveena" | "Arya"     | 8.0

|===
// end::stream[]

Zhen and Arya, and Zhen and Karin have the most similar food preferences, with a euclidean distance of 0.0.
Lower scores are better here; a score of 0 would indicate that users have exactly the same preferences.

We might decide that we don't want to see users with a similarity above 5 returned in our results.
If so, we can filter those out by passing in the `similarityCutoff` parameter.

.The following will return a stream of node pairs that have a similarity of at most 17, along with their euclidean distance:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=stream-similarity-cutoff]
----

// tag::stream-similarity-cutoff[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`     | `to`       | `similarity`
| "Zhen"     | "Arya"    | 0.0
| "Zhen"     | "Karin"   | 0.0
| "Praveena" | "Karin"   | 3.0
| "Zhen"     | "Michael" | 3.605551275463989
| "Praveena" | "Michael" | 4.0
|===
// end::stream-similarity-cutoff[]

We can see that those users with a high score have been filtered out.
If we're implementing a k-Nearest Neighbors type query we might instead want to find the most similar `k` users for a given user.
We can do that by passing in the `topK` parameter.

.The following will return a stream of users along with the most similar user to them (i.e. `k=1`):
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=stream-topk]
----

// tag::stream-topk[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1"]
|===
| `from`       | `to`         | `similarity`
| "Arya"     | "Zhen"  | 0.0
| "Karin"    | "Zhen"  | 0.0
| "Michael"  | "Zhen"  | 3.605551275463989
| "Praveena" | "Karin" | 3.0
| "Zhen"     | "Arya"  | 0.0

|===
// end::stream-topk[]

These results will not be symmetrical.
For example, the person most similar to Michael is Zhen, but the person most similar to Zhen is Arya.

.The following will find the most similar user for each user, and store a relationship between those users:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=write-back]
----

// tag::write-back[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `nodes` | `similarityPairs` | `write` | `writeRelationshipType` | `writeProperty` | `min`  | `max`  | `mean` | `p95`
| 5     | 5               | TRUE  | "SIMILAR"             | "score"       | 0.0 | 3.6055450439453125 | 1.3211090087890625 | 3.6055450439453125
|===
// end::write-back[]

We then could write a query to find out what types of cuisine that other people similar to us might like.

.The following will find the most similar user to Praveena, and return their favorite cuisines that Praveena doesn't (yet!) like:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=query]
----

// tag::query[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `cuisine`
| Italian
| Lebanese
|===
// end::query[]

[[algorithms-similarity-euclidean-source-target-ids]]
== Specifying source and target ids

include::labs-similarity.adoc[tag=source-target-ids]

We could use this technique to compute the similarity of a subset of items to all other items.


.The following will find the most similar person (i.e. `k=1`) to Arya and Praveena:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=source-target-ids]
----

// tag::source-target-ids[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1"]
|===
| `from`   | `to`     | `similarity`\
| Praveena | Karin | 3.0       
| Arya     | Zhen  | 0.0       
|===
// end::source-target-ids[]


[[algorithms-similarity-euclidean-skipping-values]]
== Skipping values

By default the `skipValue` parameter is `algo.Nan()`.
The algorithm checks every value against the `skipValue` to determine whether that value should be considered as part of the similarity result.
For cases where no values should be skipped, skipping can be disabled by setting `skipValue` to `null`.

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=create-sample-embedding-graph]
----

.The following will find the similarity between cuisines based on the `embedding` property:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=embedding-graph-stream]
----

[[algorithms-similarity-euclidean-cypher-projection]]
== Cypher projection

include::projected-graph-model/cypher-projection.adoc[tag=similarity-explanation]

.Set `graph:'cypher'` in the config:

[source,cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=cypher-projection]
----



[[algorithms-similarity-euclidean-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.similarity.euclidean(userData:List<Map>> or String, {
    topK: 1, similarityCutoff: 17.0, write:true, writeProperty: "euclideanSimilarity"
})
YIELD nodes, similarityPairs, write, writeRelationshipType, writeProperty, min, max, mean, stdDev, p25, p50, p75, p90, p95, p99, p999, p100
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name                    | Type           | Default                | Optional | Description
| `data`                  | list or string | null                   | no       | A list of maps of the following structure: `{item: nodeId, weights: [double, double, double]}` or a Cypher query.
| `top`                   | int            | 0                      | yes      | The number of similar pairs to return. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `topK`                  | int            | 0                      | yes      | The number of similar values to return per node. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `similarityCutoff`      | int            | -1                     | yes      | The threshold for Euclidean distance. Values above this will not be returned.
| `degreeCutoff`          | int            | 0                      | yes      | The threshold for the number of items in the `targets` list. If the list contains less than this amount, that node will be excluded from the calculation.
| `skipValue`             | double         | algo.NaN()             | yes      | Value to skip when executing similarity computation. A value of `null` means that skipping is disabled.
| `concurrency`           | int            | available CPUs         | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for running the algorithm. Also provides the default value for 'readConcurrency' and 'writeConcurrency'.
| `readConcurrency`       | int            | value of 'concurrency' | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for reading the graph.
| `writeConcurrency`      | int            | value of 'concurrency' | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for writing the result.
| `graph`                 | string         | dense                  | yes      | The graph name ('dense' or 'cypher').
| `write`                 | boolean        | false                  | yes      | Indicates whether results should be stored.
| `writeBatchSize`        | int            | 10000                  | yes      | The batch size to use when storing results.
| `writeRelationshipType` | string         | SIMILAR                | yes      | The relationship type to use when storing results.
| `writeProperty`         | string         | score                  | yes      | The property to use when storing results.
| `sourceIds`             | long[]         | null                   | yes      | The ids of items from which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `targetIds`             | long[]         | null                   | yes      | The ids of items to which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name                  | Type    | Description
| `nodes`                 | int     | The number of nodes passed in.
| `similarityPairs`       | int     | The number of pairs of similar nodes computed.
| `write`                 | boolean | Indicates whether results were stored.
| `writeRelationshipType` | string  | The relationship type used when storing results.
| `writeProperty`         | string  | The property used when storing results.
| `min`                   | double  | The minimum similarity score computed.
| `max`                   | double  | The maximum similarity score computed.
| `mean`                  | double  | The mean of similarities scores computed.
| `stdDev`                | double  | The standard deviation of similarities scores computed.
| `p25`                   | double  | The 25 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p50`                   | double  | The 50 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p75`                   | double  | The 75 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p90`                   | double  | The 90 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p95`                   | double  | The 95 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p99`                   | double  | The 99 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p999`                  | double  | The 99.9 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p100`                  | double  | The 100 percentile of similarities scores computed.
|===


.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name               | Type           | Default                | Optional | Description
| `data`             | list or string | null                   | no       | A list of maps of the following structure: `{item: nodeId, weights: [double, double, double]}` or a Cypher query.
| `top`              | int            | 0                      | yes      | The number of similar pairs to return. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `topK`             | int            | 0                      | yes      | The number of similar values to return per node. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `similarityCutoff` | int            | -1                     | yes      | The threshold for euclidean distance. Values above this will not be returned.
| `degreeCutoff`     | int            | 0                      | yes      | The threshold for the number of items in the `targets` list. If the list contains less than this amount, that node will be excluded from the calculation.
| `skipValue`        | double         | algo.NaN()             | yes      | Value to skip when executing similarity computation. A value of `null` means that skipping is disabled.
| `concurrency`      | int            | available CPUs         | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for running the algorithm. Also provides the default value for 'readConcurrency'.
| `readConcurrency`  | int            | value of 'concurrency' | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for reading the graph.
| `graph`            | string         | dense                  | yes      | The graph name ('dense' or 'cypher').
| `sourceIds`        | long[]         | null                   | yes      | The ids of items from which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `targetIds`        | long[]         | null                   | yes      | The ids of items to which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name         | Type | Description
| `item1`      | int  | The ID of one node in the similarity pair.
| `item2`      | int  | The ID of other node in the similarity pair.
| `count1`       | int  | The size of the `targets` list of one node.
| `count2`       | int  | The size of the `targets` list of other node.
| `intersection` | int  | The number of intersecting values in the two nodes `targets` lists.
| `similarity`   | int  | The euclidean distance between the two nodes.
|===

Commit message:

Rephrase `experimental` to `labs` in docs content
Co-authored-by: Mats Rydberg <mats@neotechnology.com>

doc/asciidoc/labs-similarity-euclidean.adoc, after:

:procedure-name: Euclidean Distance

[[labs-algorithms-similarity-euclidean]]
= The Euclidean Distance algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Euclidean Distance algorithm in the Neo4j Labs Graph Algorithms library.
--

Euclidean distance measures the straight line distance between two points in n-dimensional space.

[WARNING]
--
The Euclidean Distance algorithm is part of Neo4j Labs and not supported for production purposes.
--

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-similarity-euclidean-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-euclidean-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the Euclidean Distance algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-euclidean-function-sample, Euclidean Distance algorithm function sample>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-euclidean-procedure-sample, Euclidean Distance algorithm procedures sample>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-euclidean-source-target-ids, Specifying source and target ids>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-euclidean-skipping-values, Skipping values>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-euclidean-cypher-projection, Cypher projection>>
* <<algorithms-similarity-euclidean-syntax, Syntax>>


[[algorithms-similarity-euclidean-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]

Euclidean distance is computed using the following formula:

image::euclidean.png[role="middle"]

// This is the raw information for this image:
// [subs = none]
// \( similarity(p_1, p_2) = \sqrt{\sum_{i~\in~\textrm{item}} (s_{p_1} - s_{p_2})^2} \)

The library contains both procedures and functions to calculate similarity between sets of data.
The function is best used when calculating the similarity between small numbers of sets.
The procedures parallelize the computation and are therefore more appropriate for computing similarities on bigger datasets.

// end::explanation[]


[[algorithms-similarity-euclidean-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the Euclidean Distance algorithm

// tag::use-case[]
We can use the Euclidean Distance algorithm to work out the similarity between two things.
We might then use the computed similarity as part of a recommendation query.
For example, to get movie recommendations based on the preferences of users who have given similar ratings to other movies that you’ve seen.
// end::use-case[]


[[algorithms-similarity-euclidean-function-sample]]
== Euclidean Distance algorithm function sample

The Euclidean Distance function computes the similarity of two lists of numbers.

include::labs-similarity.adoc[tag=weighted-function-note]

We can use it to compute the similarity of two hardcoded lists.

.The following will return the euclidean similarity of two lists of numbers:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=function]
----

// tag::function[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `similarity`
| 8.426149773176359
|===
// end::function[]

// tag::function-explanation[]
These two lists of numbers have a euclidean distance of 8.42.

// end::function-explanation[]

We can also use it to compute the similarity of nodes based on lists computed by a Cypher query.

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will return the Euclidean distance of Zhen and Praveena:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=function-cypher]
----

// tag::function-cypher[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`       | `to`         | `similarity`
| "Zhen" | "Praveena" | 6.708203932499369

|===
// end::function-cypher[]

.The following will return the Euclidean distance  of Zhen and the other people that have a cuisine in common:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=function-cypher-all]
----

// tag::function-cypher--all[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`       | `to`         | `similarity`
| "Zhen" | "Praveena" | 6.708203932499369
| "Zhen" | "Michael"  | 3.605551275463989

|===
// end::function-cypher-all[]

[[algorithms-similarity-euclidean-procedure-sample]]
== Euclidean Distance algorithm procedures sample

include::labs-similarity.adoc[tag=computation]
include::labs-similarity.adoc[tag=weighted-note]

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will return a stream of node pairs, along with their intersection and euclidean similarities:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=stream]
----

// tag::stream[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`     | `to`       | `similarity`
| "Zhen"     | "Arya"     | 0.0
| "Zhen"     | "Karin"    | 0.0
| "Praveena" | "Karin"    | 3.0
| "Zhen"     | "Michael"  | 3.605551275463989
| "Praveena" | "Michael"  | 4.0
| "Arya"     | "Karin"    | 4.358898943540674
| "Michael"  | "Arya"     | 5.0
| "Zhen"     | "Praveena" | 6.708203932499369
| "Michael"  | "Karin"    | 7.0
| "Praveena" | "Arya"     | 8.0

|===
// end::stream[]

Zhen and Arya, and Zhen and Karin have the most similar food preferences, with a euclidean distance of 0.0.
Lower scores are better here; a score of 0 would indicate that users have exactly the same preferences.

We might decide that we don't want to see users with a similarity above 5 returned in our results.
If so, we can filter those out by passing in the `similarityCutoff` parameter.

.The following will return a stream of node pairs that have a similarity of at most 17, along with their euclidean distance:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=stream-similarity-cutoff]
----

// tag::stream-similarity-cutoff[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `from`     | `to`       | `similarity`
| "Zhen"     | "Arya"    | 0.0
| "Zhen"     | "Karin"   | 0.0
| "Praveena" | "Karin"   | 3.0
| "Zhen"     | "Michael" | 3.605551275463989
| "Praveena" | "Michael" | 4.0
|===
// end::stream-similarity-cutoff[]

We can see that those users with a high score have been filtered out.
If we're implementing a k-Nearest Neighbors type query we might instead want to find the most similar `k` users for a given user.
We can do that by passing in the `topK` parameter.

.The following will return a stream of users along with the most similar user to them (i.e. `k=1`):
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=stream-topk]
----

// tag::stream-topk[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1"]
|===
| `from`       | `to`         | `similarity`
| "Arya"     | "Zhen"  | 0.0
| "Karin"    | "Zhen"  | 0.0
| "Michael"  | "Zhen"  | 3.605551275463989
| "Praveena" | "Karin" | 3.0
| "Zhen"     | "Arya"  | 0.0

|===
// end::stream-topk[]

These results will not be symmetrical.
For example, the person most similar to Michael is Zhen, but the person most similar to Zhen is Arya.

.The following will find the most similar user for each user, and store a relationship between those users:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=write-back]
----

// tag::write-back[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `nodes` | `similarityPairs` | `write` | `writeRelationshipType` | `writeProperty` | `min`  | `max`  | `mean` | `p95`
| 5     | 5               | TRUE  | "SIMILAR"             | "score"       | 0.0 | 3.6055450439453125 | 1.3211090087890625 | 3.6055450439453125
|===
// end::write-back[]

We then could write a query to find out what types of cuisine that other people similar to us might like.

.The following will find the most similar user to Praveena, and return their favorite cuisines that Praveena doesn't (yet!) like:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=query]
----

// tag::query[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `cuisine`
| Italian
| Lebanese
|===
// end::query[]

[[algorithms-similarity-euclidean-source-target-ids]]
== Specifying source and target ids

include::labs-similarity.adoc[tag=source-target-ids]

We could use this technique to compute the similarity of a subset of items to all other items.


.The following will find the most similar person (i.e. `k=1`) to Arya and Praveena:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=source-target-ids]
----

// tag::source-target-ids[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1"]
|===
| `from`   | `to`     | `similarity`\
| Praveena | Karin | 3.0       
| Arya     | Zhen  | 0.0       
|===
// end::source-target-ids[]


[[algorithms-similarity-euclidean-skipping-values]]
== Skipping values

By default the `skipValue` parameter is `algo.Nan()`.
The algorithm checks every value against the `skipValue` to determine whether that value should be considered as part of the similarity result.
For cases where no values should be skipped, skipping can be disabled by setting `skipValue` to `null`.

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=create-sample-embedding-graph]
----

.The following will find the similarity between cuisines based on the `embedding` property:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=embedding-graph-stream]
----

[[algorithms-similarity-euclidean-cypher-projection]]
== Cypher projection

include::projected-graph-model/cypher-projection.adoc[tag=similarity-explanation]

.Set `graph:'cypher'` in the config:

[source,cypher]
----
include::scripts/similarity-euclidean.cypher[tag=cypher-projection]
----



[[algorithms-similarity-euclidean-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.similarity.euclidean(userData:List<Map>> or String, {
    topK: 1, similarityCutoff: 17.0, write:true, writeProperty: "euclideanSimilarity"
})
YIELD nodes, similarityPairs, write, writeRelationshipType, writeProperty, min, max, mean, stdDev, p25, p50, p75, p90, p95, p99, p999, p100
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name                    | Type           | Default                | Optional | Description
| `data`                  | list or string | null                   | no       | A list of maps of the following structure: `{item: nodeId, weights: [double, double, double]}` or a Cypher query.
| `top`                   | int            | 0                      | yes      | The number of similar pairs to return. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `topK`                  | int            | 0                      | yes      | The number of similar values to return per node. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `similarityCutoff`      | int            | -1                     | yes      | The threshold for Euclidean distance. Values above this will not be returned.
| `degreeCutoff`          | int            | 0                      | yes      | The threshold for the number of items in the `targets` list. If the list contains less than this amount, that node will be excluded from the calculation.
| `skipValue`             | double         | algo.NaN()             | yes      | Value to skip when executing similarity computation. A value of `null` means that skipping is disabled.
| `concurrency`           | int            | available CPUs         | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for running the algorithm. Also provides the default value for 'readConcurrency' and 'writeConcurrency'.
| `readConcurrency`       | int            | value of 'concurrency' | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for reading the graph.
| `writeConcurrency`      | int            | value of 'concurrency' | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for writing the result.
| `graph`                 | string         | dense                  | yes      | The graph name ('dense' or 'cypher').
| `write`                 | boolean        | false                  | yes      | Indicates whether results should be stored.
| `writeBatchSize`        | int            | 10000                  | yes      | The batch size to use when storing results.
| `writeRelationshipType` | string         | SIMILAR                | yes      | The relationship type to use when storing results.
| `writeProperty`         | string         | score                  | yes      | The property to use when storing results.
| `sourceIds`             | long[]         | null                   | yes      | The ids of items from which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `targetIds`             | long[]         | null                   | yes      | The ids of items to which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name                  | Type    | Description
| `nodes`                 | int     | The number of nodes passed in.
| `similarityPairs`       | int     | The number of pairs of similar nodes computed.
| `write`                 | boolean | Indicates whether results were stored.
| `writeRelationshipType` | string  | The relationship type used when storing results.
| `writeProperty`         | string  | The property used when storing results.
| `min`                   | double  | The minimum similarity score computed.
| `max`                   | double  | The maximum similarity score computed.
| `mean`                  | double  | The mean of similarities scores computed.
| `stdDev`                | double  | The standard deviation of similarities scores computed.
| `p25`                   | double  | The 25 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p50`                   | double  | The 50 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p75`                   | double  | The 75 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p90`                   | double  | The 90 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p95`                   | double  | The 95 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p99`                   | double  | The 99 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p999`                  | double  | The 99.9 percentile of similarities scores computed.
| `p100`                  | double  | The 100 percentile of similarities scores computed.
|===


.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name               | Type           | Default                | Optional | Description
| `data`             | list or string | null                   | no       | A list of maps of the following structure: `{item: nodeId, weights: [double, double, double]}` or a Cypher query.
| `top`              | int            | 0                      | yes      | The number of similar pairs to return. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `topK`             | int            | 0                      | yes      | The number of similar values to return per node. If `0`, it will return as many as it finds.
| `similarityCutoff` | int            | -1                     | yes      | The threshold for euclidean distance. Values above this will not be returned.
| `degreeCutoff`     | int            | 0                      | yes      | The threshold for the number of items in the `targets` list. If the list contains less than this amount, that node will be excluded from the calculation.
| `skipValue`        | double         | algo.NaN()             | yes      | Value to skip when executing similarity computation. A value of `null` means that skipping is disabled.
| `concurrency`      | int            | available CPUs         | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for running the algorithm. Also provides the default value for 'readConcurrency'.
| `readConcurrency`  | int            | value of 'concurrency' | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for reading the graph.
| `graph`            | string         | dense                  | yes      | The graph name ('dense' or 'cypher').
| `sourceIds`        | long[]         | null                   | yes      | The ids of items from which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
| `targetIds`        | long[]         | null                   | yes      | The ids of items to which we need to compute similarities. Defaults to all the items provided in the `data` parameter.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name         | Type | Description
| `item1`      | int  | The ID of one node in the similarity pair.
| `item2`      | int  | The ID of other node in the similarity pair.
| `count1`       | int  | The size of the `targets` list of one node.
| `count2`       | int  | The size of the `targets` list of other node.
| `intersection` | int  | The number of intersecting values in the two nodes `targets` lists.
| `similarity`   | int  | The euclidean distance between the two nodes.
|===
