doc/asciidoc/labs-linkprediction-same-community.adoc, before:

[[labs-algorithms-linkprediction-same-community]]
= The Same Community algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Same Community algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

Same Community is a way of determining whether two nodes belong to the same community.
These communities could be computed by using one of the <<algorithms-community>>.

[WARNING]
--
The Same Community algorithm is experimental and not officially supported.
--

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-linkprediction-same-community-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-linkprediction-same-community-sample, Same Community algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithms-linkprediction-same-community-syntax, Syntax>>


[[algorithms-linkprediction-same-community-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]

If two nodes belong to the same community, there is a greater likelihood that there will be a relationship between them in future, if there isn't already.

A value of 0 indicates that two nodes are not in the same community.
A value of 1 indicates that two nodes are in the same community.

The library contains a function to calculate closeness between two nodes.

// end::explanation[]


[[algorithms-linkprediction-same-community-sample]]
== Same Community algorithm sample

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-same-community.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will indicate that Michael and Zhen belong to the same community:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-same-community.cypher[tag=same-community]
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `score`
| 1.0
|===

.The following will indicate that Michael and Praveena do not belong to the same community:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-same-community.cypher[tag=different-community]
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `score`
| 0.0
|===

If one of the nodes doesn't have a community, this means it doesn't belong to the same community as any other node.

.The following will indicate that Michael and Jennifer do not belong to the same community:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-same-community.cypher[tag=missing-community]
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `score`
| 0.0
|===

By default, the community is read from the `community` property, but it is possible to explicitly state which property to read from.


.The following will indicate that Arya and Karin belong to the same community, based on the `partition` property:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-same-community.cypher[tag=same-community-specific]
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `score`
| 1.0
|===


[[algorithms-linkprediction-same-community-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and return the result:
[source, cypher]
----
RETURN algo.linkprediction.sameCommunity(node1:Node, node2:Node, communityProperty:String)
----


.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name                   | Type    | Default        | Optional | Description
| `node1`                   | Node    | null           | no       | A node
| `node2`                   | Node    | null           | no       | Another node
| `communityProperty`                   | String    | 'community'           | yes       | The property that contains the community to which nodes belong
|===

Commit message:

Rephrase `experimental` to `labs` in docs content
Co-authored-by: Mats Rydberg <mats@neotechnology.com>

doc/asciidoc/labs-linkprediction-same-community.adoc, after:

[[labs-algorithms-linkprediction-same-community]]
= The Same Community algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Same Community algorithm in the Neo4j Labs Graph Algorithms library.
--

Same Community is a way of determining whether two nodes belong to the same community.
These communities could be computed by using one of the <<algorithms-community>>.

[WARNING]
--
The Same Community algorithm is part of Neo4j Labs and not supported for production purposes.
--

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-linkprediction-same-community-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-linkprediction-same-community-sample, Same Community algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithms-linkprediction-same-community-syntax, Syntax>>


[[algorithms-linkprediction-same-community-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]

If two nodes belong to the same community, there is a greater likelihood that there will be a relationship between them in future, if there isn't already.

A value of 0 indicates that two nodes are not in the same community.
A value of 1 indicates that two nodes are in the same community.

The library contains a function to calculate closeness between two nodes.

// end::explanation[]


[[algorithms-linkprediction-same-community-sample]]
== Same Community algorithm sample

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-same-community.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will indicate that Michael and Zhen belong to the same community:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-same-community.cypher[tag=same-community]
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `score`
| 1.0
|===

.The following will indicate that Michael and Praveena do not belong to the same community:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-same-community.cypher[tag=different-community]
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `score`
| 0.0
|===

If one of the nodes doesn't have a community, this means it doesn't belong to the same community as any other node.

.The following will indicate that Michael and Jennifer do not belong to the same community:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-same-community.cypher[tag=missing-community]
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `score`
| 0.0
|===

By default, the community is read from the `community` property, but it is possible to explicitly state which property to read from.


.The following will indicate that Arya and Karin belong to the same community, based on the `partition` property:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-same-community.cypher[tag=same-community-specific]
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `score`
| 1.0
|===


[[algorithms-linkprediction-same-community-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and return the result:
[source, cypher]
----
RETURN algo.linkprediction.sameCommunity(node1:Node, node2:Node, communityProperty:String)
----


.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name                   | Type    | Default        | Optional | Description
| `node1`                   | Node    | null           | no       | A node
| `node2`                   | Node    | null           | no       | Another node
| `communityProperty`                   | String    | 'community'           | yes       | The property that contains the community to which nodes belong
|===
