doc/asciidoc/labs-shortest-path.adoc, before:

[[labs-algorithms-shortest-path]]
= The Shortest Path algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Shortest Path algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

The Shortest Path algorithm calculates the shortest (weighted) path between a pair of nodes.
In this category, Dijkstra's algorithm is the most well known.
It is a real time graph algorithm, and can be used as part of the normal user flow in a web or mobile application.

[WARNING]
--
The Shortest Path algorithm is experimental and not officially supported.
--

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-shortest-path-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-shortest-path-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the Shortest Path algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-shortest-path-limitations, Constraints - when not to use the Shortest Path algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-shortest-path-sample, Shortest Path algorithm sample>>
** <<algorithms-shortest-path-dijkstra, The Dijkstra Shortest Path algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-shortest-path-cp, Cypher projection>>
* <<algorithms-shortest-path-syntax, Syntax>>
* <<algorithms-shortest-path-support, Graph type support>>
* <<algorithms-shortest-path-imp, Implementations>>


[[algorithms-shortest-path-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]
Path finding has a long history, and is considered to be one of the classical graph problems; it has been researched as far back as the 19th century.
It gained prominence in the early 1950s in the context of ‘alternate routing’, i.e. finding a second shortest route if the shortest route is blocked.

Dijkstra came up with his algorithm in 1956 while trying to come up with something to show off the new ARMAC computers.
He needed to find a problem and solution that people not familiar with computing would be able to understand, and designed what is now known as Dijkstra's algorithm.
He later implemented it for a slightly simplified transportation map of 64 cities in the Netherlands.
// end::explanation[]


[[algorithms-shortest-path-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the Shortest Path algorithm

// tag::use-case[]
* Finding directions between physical locations.
  This is the most common usage, and web mapping tools such as Google Maps use the shortest path algorithm, or a variant of it, to provide driving directions.

* Social networks can use the algorithm to find the degrees of separation between people.
  For example, when you view someone's profile on LinkedIn, it will indicate how many people separate you in the connections graph, as well as listing your mutual connections.
// end::use-case[]


[[algorithms-shortest-path-limitations]]
== Constraints - when not to use the Shortest Path algorithm

// tag::constraint[]
Dijkstra does not support negative weights.
The algorithm assumes that adding a relationship to a path can never make a path shorter - an invariant that would be violated with negative weights.
// end::constraint[]


[[algorithms-shortest-path-sample]]
== Shortest Path algorithm sample

image::sssp.png[]

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----


[[algorithms-shortest-path-dijkstra]]
=== The Dijkstra Shortest Path algorithm

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=single-pair-stream-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=single-pair-write-sample-graph]
----

// tag::single-pair-stream-sample-graph-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name | Cost
| A    | 0
| C    | 50
| D    | 90
| E    | 120
| F    | 160
|===

// end::single-pair-stream-sample-graph-result[]

// tag::single-pair-stream-sample-graph-explanation[]
The quickest route takes us from A to F, via C, D, and E, at a total cost of 160:

* First, we go from A to C, at a cost of 50.
* Then, we go from C to D, for an additional 40.
* Then, from D to E, for an additional 30.
* Finally, from E to F, for a further 40.
// end::single-pair-stream-sample-graph-explanation[]


// == Example usage


[[algorithms-shortest-path-cp]]
== Cypher projection

include::projected-graph-model/cypher-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'cypher'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=cypher-loading]
----


[[algorithms-shortest-path-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.shortestPath(startNode:Node, endNode:Node, weightProperty:String
    {nodeQuery:'labelName', relationshipQuery:'relationshipName', defaultValue:1.0, write:'true', writeProperty:'sssp', direction:'OUTGOING'})
YIELD nodeCount, totalCost, loadMillis, evalMillis, writeMillis

----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name              | Type    | Default  | Optional | Description
| startNode         | node    | null     | no       | The start node
| endNode           | node    | null     | no       | The end node
| weightProperty    | string  | null     | yes      | The property name that contains weight. If null, treats the graph as unweighted. Must be numeric.
| defaultValue      | float   | null     | yes      | The default value of the weight in case it is missing or invalid
| write             | boolean | true     | yes      | Specifies if the result should be written back as a node property
| writeProperty     | string  | 'sssp'   | yes      | The property name written back to the node sequence of the node in the path
| nodeQuery         | string  | null     | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| relationshipQuery | string  | null     | yes      | The relationship type to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| direction         | string  | outgoing | yes      | The relationship direction to load from the graph. If 'both', treats the relationships as undirected
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name        | Type  | Description
| nodeCount   | int   | The number of nodes considered
| totalCost   | float | The sum of all weights along the path
| loadMillis  | int   | Milliseconds for loading data
| evalMillis  | int   | Milliseconds for running the algorithm
| writeMillis | int   | Milliseconds for writing result data back
|===

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.shortestPath.stream(startNode:Node, endNode:Node, weightProperty:String
    {nodeQuery:'labelName', relationshipQuery:'relationshipName', defaultValue:1.0, direction:'OUTGOING'})
 YIELD nodeId, cost
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name              | Type   | Default  | Optional | Description
| startNode         | node   | null     | no       | The start node
| endNode           | node   | null     | no       | The end node
| weightProperty    | string | null     | yes      | The property name that contains weight. If null, treats the graph as unweighted. Must be numeric.
| nodeQuery         | string | null     | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| relationshipQuery | string | null     | yes      | The relationship type to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| defaultValue      | float  | null     | yes      | The default value of the weight in case it is missing or invalid
| direction         | string | outgoing | yes      | The relationship direction to load from the graph. If 'both', treats the relationships as undirected
|===

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Name   | Type | Description
| nodeId | int  | Node ID
| cost   | int  | The cost it takes to get from start node to specific node
|===


[[algorithms-shortest-path-support]]
== Graph type support

The shortest path algorithms support the following graph types:

* [x] directed, unweighted:
** direction: 'OUTGOING' or INCOMING, weightProperty: null
* [x] directed, weighted
** direction: 'OUTGOING' or INCOMING, weightProperty: 'cost'
* [x] undirected, unweighted
** direction: 'BOTH', weightProperty: null
* [x] undirected, weighted
** direction: 'BOTH', weightProperty: 'cost'


[[algorithms-shortest-path-imp]]
== Implementations

`algo.shortestPath`

* Specify start and end node, find the shortest path between them.
* Dijkstra single source shortest path algorithm.
* There may be more then one shortest path, algorithm returns only one.
* If initialized with an non-existing weight-property, it will treat the graph as unweighted.

`algo.shortestPaths`

* Specify start node, find the shortest paths to all other nodes.
* Dijkstra single source shortest path algorithm.
* If initialized with an non-existing weight-property, it will treat the graph as unweighted.


ifndef::env-docs[]
== References

// tag::references[]
* [1] http://onlinepubs.trb.org/Onlinepubs/hrbbulletin/61/61-003.pdf[Effect of travel time and distance on freeway usage^]
* http://www.math.uiuc.edu/documenta/vol-ismp/32_schrijver-alexander-sp.pdf
* http://www.math.ias.edu/~pooyahat/Dijkstra.pdf
* https://arxiv.org/pdf/1604.02113v1.pdf
* https://www.cc.gatech.edu/~bader/papers/ShortestPaths-ALENEX2007.pdf
// end::references[]
endif::env-docs[]

ifdef::implementation[]
// tag::implementation[]


== Implementation details

:leveloffset: +1
// copied from: https://github.com/neo4j-contrib/neo4j-graph-algorithms/issues/80

A Shortest Path algorithm calculates a path between a pair of nodes whose summed weights are minimal.
A common algorithm used is Dijkstra.
On the other hand, All Pairs Shortest Path calculates a shortest path forest containing all paths between the nodes in the graph.
An algorithm to solve this is Floyd Warshall or Parallel Johnson's algorithm.

## Progress

- [x] single threaded implementation
- [x] tests
- [x] simple benchmark
- [x] implement procedure
- [ ] benchmark on bigger graphs
- [ ] parallelization
- [ ] evaluation

## Requirements

`(Outgoing)RelationshipIterator` & `Weights`

## Data structured involved

- An int-based Fibonacci Heap which implements an efficient priority queue.
- Different Container for Costs / visited state / paths

## ToDo

### benchmark

Implement benchmark on big graph

### parallelization

Parallizing _All Pairs Shortest Path_ might be easy using Dijkstra on each thread for a different node. An easy approach for _Single Source SP_ may use two threads. One starting at the start-node, one at the end-node. The first wins. [More](https://www.cs.rice.edu/~vs3/comp422/lecture-notes/comp422-lec24-s08-v2.pdf)

### evaluation

- Performance tests on different dataset sizes / level of concurrency


== Details


=== algo.shortestPath

- Dijkstra single source shortest path algorithm
- The algorithm computes a shortest path on weighted graphs
 between a given start and target-NodeId. It returns result tuples of [nodeId, distance] of each node
 in the path
- there may be more then one shortest path, algo returns only one
- if initialized with an not-existing weight-property and a defaultWeight of 1.0 the resulting path is minimal in
 terms of count of nodes in the path.


=== algo.shortestPaths

- Dijkstra single source shortest path algorithm
- returns minimum distance to *all other nodes*
- if initialized with an not-existing weight-property and a defaultWeight of 1.0 the resulting path is minimal in terms of count of nodes in the path.

// end::implementation[]
endif::implementation[]

Commit message:

Rephrase `experimental` to `labs` in docs content
Co-authored-by: Mats Rydberg <mats@neotechnology.com>

doc/asciidoc/labs-shortest-path.adoc, after:

[[labs-algorithms-shortest-path]]
= The Shortest Path algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Shortest Path algorithm in the Neo4j Labs Graph Algorithms library.
--

The Shortest Path algorithm calculates the shortest (weighted) path between a pair of nodes.
In this category, Dijkstra's algorithm is the most well known.
It is a real time graph algorithm, and can be used as part of the normal user flow in a web or mobile application.

[WARNING]
--
The Shortest Path algorithm is part of Neo4j Labs and not supported for production purposes.
--

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-shortest-path-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-shortest-path-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the Shortest Path algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-shortest-path-limitations, Constraints - when not to use the Shortest Path algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-shortest-path-sample, Shortest Path algorithm sample>>
** <<algorithms-shortest-path-dijkstra, The Dijkstra Shortest Path algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-shortest-path-cp, Cypher projection>>
* <<algorithms-shortest-path-syntax, Syntax>>
* <<algorithms-shortest-path-support, Graph type support>>
* <<algorithms-shortest-path-imp, Implementations>>


[[algorithms-shortest-path-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]
Path finding has a long history, and is considered to be one of the classical graph problems; it has been researched as far back as the 19th century.
It gained prominence in the early 1950s in the context of ‘alternate routing’, i.e. finding a second shortest route if the shortest route is blocked.

Dijkstra came up with his algorithm in 1956 while trying to come up with something to show off the new ARMAC computers.
He needed to find a problem and solution that people not familiar with computing would be able to understand, and designed what is now known as Dijkstra's algorithm.
He later implemented it for a slightly simplified transportation map of 64 cities in the Netherlands.
// end::explanation[]


[[algorithms-shortest-path-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the Shortest Path algorithm

// tag::use-case[]
* Finding directions between physical locations.
  This is the most common usage, and web mapping tools such as Google Maps use the shortest path algorithm, or a variant of it, to provide driving directions.

* Social networks can use the algorithm to find the degrees of separation between people.
  For example, when you view someone's profile on LinkedIn, it will indicate how many people separate you in the connections graph, as well as listing your mutual connections.
// end::use-case[]


[[algorithms-shortest-path-limitations]]
== Constraints - when not to use the Shortest Path algorithm

// tag::constraint[]
Dijkstra does not support negative weights.
The algorithm assumes that adding a relationship to a path can never make a path shorter - an invariant that would be violated with negative weights.
// end::constraint[]


[[algorithms-shortest-path-sample]]
== Shortest Path algorithm sample

image::sssp.png[]

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----


[[algorithms-shortest-path-dijkstra]]
=== The Dijkstra Shortest Path algorithm

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=single-pair-stream-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=single-pair-write-sample-graph]
----

// tag::single-pair-stream-sample-graph-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name | Cost
| A    | 0
| C    | 50
| D    | 90
| E    | 120
| F    | 160
|===

// end::single-pair-stream-sample-graph-result[]

// tag::single-pair-stream-sample-graph-explanation[]
The quickest route takes us from A to F, via C, D, and E, at a total cost of 160:

* First, we go from A to C, at a cost of 50.
* Then, we go from C to D, for an additional 40.
* Then, from D to E, for an additional 30.
* Finally, from E to F, for a further 40.
// end::single-pair-stream-sample-graph-explanation[]


// == Example usage


[[algorithms-shortest-path-cp]]
== Cypher projection

include::projected-graph-model/cypher-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'cypher'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/single-shortest-path.cypher[tag=cypher-loading]
----


[[algorithms-shortest-path-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.shortestPath(startNode:Node, endNode:Node, weightProperty:String
    {nodeQuery:'labelName', relationshipQuery:'relationshipName', defaultValue:1.0, write:'true', writeProperty:'sssp', direction:'OUTGOING'})
YIELD nodeCount, totalCost, loadMillis, evalMillis, writeMillis

----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name              | Type    | Default  | Optional | Description
| startNode         | node    | null     | no       | The start node
| endNode           | node    | null     | no       | The end node
| weightProperty    | string  | null     | yes      | The property name that contains weight. If null, treats the graph as unweighted. Must be numeric.
| defaultValue      | float   | null     | yes      | The default value of the weight in case it is missing or invalid
| write             | boolean | true     | yes      | Specifies if the result should be written back as a node property
| writeProperty     | string  | 'sssp'   | yes      | The property name written back to the node sequence of the node in the path
| nodeQuery         | string  | null     | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| relationshipQuery | string  | null     | yes      | The relationship type to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| direction         | string  | outgoing | yes      | The relationship direction to load from the graph. If 'both', treats the relationships as undirected
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name        | Type  | Description
| nodeCount   | int   | The number of nodes considered
| totalCost   | float | The sum of all weights along the path
| loadMillis  | int   | Milliseconds for loading data
| evalMillis  | int   | Milliseconds for running the algorithm
| writeMillis | int   | Milliseconds for writing result data back
|===

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.shortestPath.stream(startNode:Node, endNode:Node, weightProperty:String
    {nodeQuery:'labelName', relationshipQuery:'relationshipName', defaultValue:1.0, direction:'OUTGOING'})
 YIELD nodeId, cost
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name              | Type   | Default  | Optional | Description
| startNode         | node   | null     | no       | The start node
| endNode           | node   | null     | no       | The end node
| weightProperty    | string | null     | yes      | The property name that contains weight. If null, treats the graph as unweighted. Must be numeric.
| nodeQuery         | string | null     | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| relationshipQuery | string | null     | yes      | The relationship type to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| defaultValue      | float  | null     | yes      | The default value of the weight in case it is missing or invalid
| direction         | string | outgoing | yes      | The relationship direction to load from the graph. If 'both', treats the relationships as undirected
|===

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Name   | Type | Description
| nodeId | int  | Node ID
| cost   | int  | The cost it takes to get from start node to specific node
|===


[[algorithms-shortest-path-support]]
== Graph type support

The shortest path algorithms support the following graph types:

* [x] directed, unweighted:
** direction: 'OUTGOING' or INCOMING, weightProperty: null
* [x] directed, weighted
** direction: 'OUTGOING' or INCOMING, weightProperty: 'cost'
* [x] undirected, unweighted
** direction: 'BOTH', weightProperty: null
* [x] undirected, weighted
** direction: 'BOTH', weightProperty: 'cost'


[[algorithms-shortest-path-imp]]
== Implementations

`algo.shortestPath`

* Specify start and end node, find the shortest path between them.
* Dijkstra single source shortest path algorithm.
* There may be more then one shortest path, algorithm returns only one.
* If initialized with an non-existing weight-property, it will treat the graph as unweighted.

`algo.shortestPaths`

* Specify start node, find the shortest paths to all other nodes.
* Dijkstra single source shortest path algorithm.
* If initialized with an non-existing weight-property, it will treat the graph as unweighted.


ifndef::env-docs[]
== References

// tag::references[]
* [1] http://onlinepubs.trb.org/Onlinepubs/hrbbulletin/61/61-003.pdf[Effect of travel time and distance on freeway usage^]
* http://www.math.uiuc.edu/documenta/vol-ismp/32_schrijver-alexander-sp.pdf
* http://www.math.ias.edu/~pooyahat/Dijkstra.pdf
* https://arxiv.org/pdf/1604.02113v1.pdf
* https://www.cc.gatech.edu/~bader/papers/ShortestPaths-ALENEX2007.pdf
// end::references[]
endif::env-docs[]

ifdef::implementation[]
// tag::implementation[]


== Implementation details

:leveloffset: +1
// copied from: https://github.com/neo4j-contrib/neo4j-graph-algorithms/issues/80

A Shortest Path algorithm calculates a path between a pair of nodes whose summed weights are minimal.
A common algorithm used is Dijkstra.
On the other hand, All Pairs Shortest Path calculates a shortest path forest containing all paths between the nodes in the graph.
An algorithm to solve this is Floyd Warshall or Parallel Johnson's algorithm.

## Progress

- [x] single threaded implementation
- [x] tests
- [x] simple benchmark
- [x] implement procedure
- [ ] benchmark on bigger graphs
- [ ] parallelization
- [ ] evaluation

## Requirements

`(Outgoing)RelationshipIterator` & `Weights`

## Data structured involved

- An int-based Fibonacci Heap which implements an efficient priority queue.
- Different Container for Costs / visited state / paths

## ToDo

### benchmark

Implement benchmark on big graph

### parallelization

Parallizing _All Pairs Shortest Path_ might be easy using Dijkstra on each thread for a different node. An easy approach for _Single Source SP_ may use two threads. One starting at the start-node, one at the end-node. The first wins. [More](https://www.cs.rice.edu/~vs3/comp422/lecture-notes/comp422-lec24-s08-v2.pdf)

### evaluation

- Performance tests on different dataset sizes / level of concurrency


== Details


=== algo.shortestPath

- Dijkstra single source shortest path algorithm
- The algorithm computes a shortest path on weighted graphs
 between a given start and target-NodeId. It returns result tuples of [nodeId, distance] of each node
 in the path
- there may be more then one shortest path, algo returns only one
- if initialized with an not-existing weight-property and a defaultWeight of 1.0 the resulting path is minimal in
 terms of count of nodes in the path.


=== algo.shortestPaths

- Dijkstra single source shortest path algorithm
- returns minimum distance to *all other nodes*
- if initialized with an not-existing weight-property and a defaultWeight of 1.0 the resulting path is minimal in terms of count of nodes in the path.

// end::implementation[]
endif::implementation[]
