doc/asciidoc/labs-linkprediction-total-neighbors.adoc, before:

[[labs-algorithms-linkprediction-total-neighbors]]
= The Total Neighbors algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Total Neighbors algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

Total Neighbors computes the closeness of nodes, based on the number of unique neighbors that they have.
It is based on the idea that the more connected a node is, the more likely it is to receive new links.

[WARNING]
--
The Total Neighbors algorithm is experimental and not officially supported.
--

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-linkprediction-total-neighbors-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-linkprediction-total-neighbors-sample, Total Neighbors algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithms-linkprediction-total-neighbors-syntax, Syntax>>


[[algorithms-linkprediction-total-neighbors-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]

Total Neighbors is computed using the following formula:

image::total-neighbors.svg[role="middle"]

where `N(x)` is the set of nodes adjacent to `x`, and `N(y)` is the set of nodes adjacent to `y`.

A value of 0 indicates that two nodes are not close, while higher values indicate nodes are closer.

The library contains a function to calculate the closeness between two nodes.

// end::explanation[]


[[algorithms-linkprediction-total-neighbors-sample]]
== Total Neighbors algorithm sample

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-total-neighbors.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will return the Total Neighbors score for Michael and Karin:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-total-neighbors.cypher[tag=all-rels]
----

// tag::function[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `score`
| 4.0
|===
// end::function[]


We can also compute the score of a pair of nodes, based on a specific relationship type.

.The following will return the Total Neighbors score for Michael and Karin based only on the `FRIENDS` relationship:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-total-neighbors.cypher[tag=only-friends]
----

// tag::function[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `score`
| 2.0
|===
// end::function[]


[[algorithms-linkprediction-total-neighbors-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and return the result:
[source, cypher]
----
RETURN algo.linkprediction.totalNeighbors(node1:Node, node2:Node, {
    relationshipQuery: null,
    direction: "BOTH"
})
----


.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name                   | Type    | Default        | Optional | Description
| `node1`                   | Node    | null           | no       | A node
| `node2`                   | Node    | null           | no       | Another node
| `relationshipQuery`                   | String    | null           | yes       | The relationship type used to compute similarity between `node1` and `node2`
| `direction`                   | String    | BOTH           | yes       | The direction of relationship type used to compute similarity between `node1` and `node2`
|===

Commit message:

Rephrase `experimental` to `labs` in docs content
Co-authored-by: Mats Rydberg <mats@neotechnology.com>

doc/asciidoc/labs-linkprediction-total-neighbors.adoc, after:

[[labs-algorithms-linkprediction-total-neighbors]]
= The Total Neighbors algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Total Neighbors algorithm in the Neo4j Labs Graph Algorithms library.
--

Total Neighbors computes the closeness of nodes, based on the number of unique neighbors that they have.
It is based on the idea that the more connected a node is, the more likely it is to receive new links.

[WARNING]
--
The Total Neighbors algorithm is part of Neo4j Labs and not supported for production purposes.
--

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-linkprediction-total-neighbors-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-linkprediction-total-neighbors-sample, Total Neighbors algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithms-linkprediction-total-neighbors-syntax, Syntax>>


[[algorithms-linkprediction-total-neighbors-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]

Total Neighbors is computed using the following formula:

image::total-neighbors.svg[role="middle"]

where `N(x)` is the set of nodes adjacent to `x`, and `N(y)` is the set of nodes adjacent to `y`.

A value of 0 indicates that two nodes are not close, while higher values indicate nodes are closer.

The library contains a function to calculate the closeness between two nodes.

// end::explanation[]


[[algorithms-linkprediction-total-neighbors-sample]]
== Total Neighbors algorithm sample

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-total-neighbors.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will return the Total Neighbors score for Michael and Karin:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-total-neighbors.cypher[tag=all-rels]
----

// tag::function[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `score`
| 4.0
|===
// end::function[]


We can also compute the score of a pair of nodes, based on a specific relationship type.

.The following will return the Total Neighbors score for Michael and Karin based only on the `FRIENDS` relationship:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/linkprediction-total-neighbors.cypher[tag=only-friends]
----

// tag::function[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| `score`
| 2.0
|===
// end::function[]


[[algorithms-linkprediction-total-neighbors-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and return the result:
[source, cypher]
----
RETURN algo.linkprediction.totalNeighbors(node1:Node, node2:Node, {
    relationshipQuery: null,
    direction: "BOTH"
})
----


.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name                   | Type    | Default        | Optional | Description
| `node1`                   | Node    | null           | no       | A node
| `node2`                   | Node    | null           | no       | Another node
| `relationshipQuery`                   | String    | null           | yes       | The relationship type used to compute similarity between `node1` and `node2`
| `direction`                   | String    | BOTH           | yes       | The direction of relationship type used to compute similarity between `node1` and `node2`
|===
