doc/asciidoc/labs-eigenvector-centrality.adoc, before:

[[labs-algorithms-eigenvector]]
= The Eigenvector Centrality algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Eigenvector Centrality algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

Eigenvector Centrality is an algorithm that measures the *transitive* influence or connectivity of nodes.

Relationships to high-scoring nodes contribute more to the score of a node than connections to low-scoring nodes.
A high score means that a node is connected to other nodes that have high scores.

[WARNING]
--
The Eigenvector Centrality algorithm is experimental and not officially supported.
--

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-eigenvector-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-eigenvector-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the Eigenvector Centrality algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-eigenvector-sample, Eigenvector Centrality algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithms-eigenvector-hgp, Huge graph projection>>
* <<algorithms-eigenvector-cp, Cypher projection>>
* <<algorithms-eigenvector-syntax, Syntax>>
* <<algorithms-eigenvector-support, Graph type support>>


[[algorithms-eigenvector-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]
Eigenvector Centrality was proposed by Phillip Bonacich, in his 1986 paper http://www.leonidzhukov.net/hse/2014/socialnetworks/papers/Bonacich-Centrality.pdf[Power and Centrality: A Family of Measures^].
It was the first of the centrality measures that considered the transitive importance of a node in a graph, rather than only considering its direct importance.
// end::explanation[]


[[algorithms-eigenvector-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the Eigenvector Centrality algorithm

// tag::use-case[]
Eigenvector Centrality can be used in many of the <<algorithms-pagerank-usecase, same use cases as the PageRank algorithm>>.
// end::use-case[]

[[algorithms-eigenvector-sample]]
== Eigenvector Centrality algorithm sample

This sample will explain the Eigenvector Centrality algorithm, using a simple graph:

image::pagerank.png[]

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/eigenvector-centrality.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/eigenvector-centrality.cypher[tag=stream-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/eigenvector-centrality.cypher[tag=write-sample-graph]
----

// tag::stream-sample-graph-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name    | Eigenvector Centrality
| Home    | 31.45819
| About   | 14.40379
| Product | 14.40379
| Links   | 14.40379
| Site A  | 6.572370000000001
| Site C  | 6.572370000000001
| Site D  | 6.572370000000001
| Site B  | 6.572370000000001
|===
// end::stream-sample-graph-result[]

// tag::stream-sample-graph-explanation[]
As we might expect, the _Home_ page has the highest Eigenvector Centrality because it has incoming links from all other pages.
We can also see that it's not only the number of incoming links that is important, but also the importance of the pages behind those links.
// end::stream-sample-graph-explanation[]

By default, the scores returned by the Eigenvector Centrality are not normalized.
We can specify a normalization using the `normalization` parameter.
The algorithm supports the following options:

* `max` - divide all scores by the maximum score
* `l1norm` - normalize scores so that they sum up to 1
* `l2norm` - divide each score by the square root of the squared  sum of all scores

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results using `max` normalization:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/eigenvector-centrality.cypher[tag=stream-sample-graph-max-norm]
----

// tag::stream-sample-graph-max-norm-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name    | Eigenvector Centrality
| Home    | 1.0
| About   | 0.45787090738532643
| Product | 0.45787090738532643
| Links   | 0.45787090738532643
| Site A  | 0.2089239717860437
| Site C  | 0.2089239717860437
| Site D  | 0.2089239717860437
| Site B  | 0.2089239717860437

|===
// end::stream-sample-graph-max-norm-result[]

[[algorithms-eigenvector-hgp]]
== Huge graph projection

include::huge-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'huge'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/eigenvector-centrality.cypher[tag=huge-projection]
----


[[algorithms-eigenvector-cp]]
== Cypher projection

include::projected-graph-model/cypher-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'cypher'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/eigenvector-centrality.cypher[tag=cypher-loading]
----


[[algorithms-eigenvector-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.eigenvector(label:String, relationship:String,
    {write: true, writeProperty:'eigenvector', concurrency:4})
YIELD nodes, loadMillis, computeMillis, writeMillis, write, writeProperty
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name             | Type    | Default                | Optional | Description
| label            | string  | null                   | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes.
| relationship     | string  | null                   | yes      | The relationship type to load from the graph. If null, load all relationships.
| concurrency      | int     | available CPUs         | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for running the algorithm. Also provides the default value for 'readConcurrency' and 'writeConcurrency'.
| readConcurrency  | int     | value of 'concurrency' | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for reading the graph.
| writeConcurrency | int     | value of 'concurrency' | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for writing the result.
| weightProperty   | string  | null                   | yes      | The property name that contains weight. If null, treats the graph as unweighted. Must be numeric.
| defaultValue     | float   | 0.0                    | yes      | The default value of the weight in case it is missing or invalid.
| write            | boolean | true                   | yes      | Specify if the result should be written back as a node property.
| graph            | string  | 'huge'                 | yes      | Use 'huge' when describing the subset of the graph with label and relationship-type parameter. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset with cypher node statement and relationship statement.
| normalization    | string  | null                   | yes      | The type of normalization to apply to the results. Valid values are `max`, `l1norm`, `l2norm`.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name          | Type    | Description
| nodes         | int     | The number of nodes considered.
| writeProperty | string  | The property name written back to.
| write         | boolean | Specifies if the result was written back as node property.
| loadMillis    | int     | Milliseconds for loading data.
| computeMillis | int     | Milliseconds for running the algorithm.
| writeMillis   | int     | Milliseconds for writing result data back.
|===

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.eigenvector.stream(label:String, relationship:String,
    {concurrency:4})
YIELD node, score
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name             | Type   | Default                | Optional | Description
| label            | string | null                   | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes.
| relationship     | string | null                   | yes      | The relationship type to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes.
| concurrency      | int    | available CPUs         | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for running the algorithm. Also provides the default value for 'readConcurrency'.
| readConcurrency  | int    | value of 'concurrency' | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for reading the graph.
| weightProperty   | string | null                   | yes      | The property name that contains weight. If null, treats the graph as unweighted. Must be numeric.
| defaultValue     | float  | 0.0                    | yes      | The default value of the weight in case it is missing or invalid.
| graph            | string | 'huge'                 | yes      | Use 'huge' when describing the subset of the graph with label and relationship-type parameter. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset with cypher node statement and relationship statement.
| normalization    | string | null                   | yes      | The type of normalization to apply to the results. Valid values are `max`, `l1norm`, `l2norm`.
|===

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Name  | Type  | Description
| nodeId  | long  | Node ID
| score | float | Eigenvector Centrality weight
|===


[[algorithms-eigenvector-support]]
== Graph type support

The Eigenvector Centrality algorithm supports the following graph types:

* [x] directed, unweighted

* [] directed, weighted

* [x] undirected, unweighted

* [] undirected, weighted

Commit message:

Rephrase `experimental` to `labs` in docs content
Co-authored-by: Mats Rydberg <mats@neotechnology.com>

doc/asciidoc/labs-eigenvector-centrality.adoc, after:

[[labs-algorithms-eigenvector]]
= The Eigenvector Centrality algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Eigenvector Centrality algorithm in the Neo4j Labs Graph Algorithms library.
--

Eigenvector Centrality is an algorithm that measures the *transitive* influence or connectivity of nodes.

Relationships to high-scoring nodes contribute more to the score of a node than connections to low-scoring nodes.
A high score means that a node is connected to other nodes that have high scores.

[WARNING]
--
The Eigenvector Centrality algorithm is part of Neo4j Labs and not supported for production purposes.
--

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-eigenvector-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-eigenvector-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the Eigenvector Centrality algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-eigenvector-sample, Eigenvector Centrality algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithms-eigenvector-hgp, Huge graph projection>>
* <<algorithms-eigenvector-cp, Cypher projection>>
* <<algorithms-eigenvector-syntax, Syntax>>
* <<algorithms-eigenvector-support, Graph type support>>


[[algorithms-eigenvector-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]
Eigenvector Centrality was proposed by Phillip Bonacich, in his 1986 paper http://www.leonidzhukov.net/hse/2014/socialnetworks/papers/Bonacich-Centrality.pdf[Power and Centrality: A Family of Measures^].
It was the first of the centrality measures that considered the transitive importance of a node in a graph, rather than only considering its direct importance.
// end::explanation[]


[[algorithms-eigenvector-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the Eigenvector Centrality algorithm

// tag::use-case[]
Eigenvector Centrality can be used in many of the <<algorithms-pagerank-usecase, same use cases as the PageRank algorithm>>.
// end::use-case[]

[[algorithms-eigenvector-sample]]
== Eigenvector Centrality algorithm sample

This sample will explain the Eigenvector Centrality algorithm, using a simple graph:

image::pagerank.png[]

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/eigenvector-centrality.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/eigenvector-centrality.cypher[tag=stream-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/eigenvector-centrality.cypher[tag=write-sample-graph]
----

// tag::stream-sample-graph-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name    | Eigenvector Centrality
| Home    | 31.45819
| About   | 14.40379
| Product | 14.40379
| Links   | 14.40379
| Site A  | 6.572370000000001
| Site C  | 6.572370000000001
| Site D  | 6.572370000000001
| Site B  | 6.572370000000001
|===
// end::stream-sample-graph-result[]

// tag::stream-sample-graph-explanation[]
As we might expect, the _Home_ page has the highest Eigenvector Centrality because it has incoming links from all other pages.
We can also see that it's not only the number of incoming links that is important, but also the importance of the pages behind those links.
// end::stream-sample-graph-explanation[]

By default, the scores returned by the Eigenvector Centrality are not normalized.
We can specify a normalization using the `normalization` parameter.
The algorithm supports the following options:

* `max` - divide all scores by the maximum score
* `l1norm` - normalize scores so that they sum up to 1
* `l2norm` - divide each score by the square root of the squared  sum of all scores

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results using `max` normalization:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/eigenvector-centrality.cypher[tag=stream-sample-graph-max-norm]
----

// tag::stream-sample-graph-max-norm-result[]
.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1"]
|===
| Name    | Eigenvector Centrality
| Home    | 1.0
| About   | 0.45787090738532643
| Product | 0.45787090738532643
| Links   | 0.45787090738532643
| Site A  | 0.2089239717860437
| Site C  | 0.2089239717860437
| Site D  | 0.2089239717860437
| Site B  | 0.2089239717860437

|===
// end::stream-sample-graph-max-norm-result[]

[[algorithms-eigenvector-hgp]]
== Huge graph projection

include::huge-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'huge'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/eigenvector-centrality.cypher[tag=huge-projection]
----


[[algorithms-eigenvector-cp]]
== Cypher projection

include::projected-graph-model/cypher-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'cypher'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/eigenvector-centrality.cypher[tag=cypher-loading]
----


[[algorithms-eigenvector-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.eigenvector(label:String, relationship:String,
    {write: true, writeProperty:'eigenvector', concurrency:4})
YIELD nodes, loadMillis, computeMillis, writeMillis, write, writeProperty
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name             | Type    | Default                | Optional | Description
| label            | string  | null                   | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes.
| relationship     | string  | null                   | yes      | The relationship type to load from the graph. If null, load all relationships.
| concurrency      | int     | available CPUs         | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for running the algorithm. Also provides the default value for 'readConcurrency' and 'writeConcurrency'.
| readConcurrency  | int     | value of 'concurrency' | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for reading the graph.
| writeConcurrency | int     | value of 'concurrency' | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for writing the result.
| weightProperty   | string  | null                   | yes      | The property name that contains weight. If null, treats the graph as unweighted. Must be numeric.
| defaultValue     | float   | 0.0                    | yes      | The default value of the weight in case it is missing or invalid.
| write            | boolean | true                   | yes      | Specify if the result should be written back as a node property.
| graph            | string  | 'huge'                 | yes      | Use 'huge' when describing the subset of the graph with label and relationship-type parameter. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset with cypher node statement and relationship statement.
| normalization    | string  | null                   | yes      | The type of normalization to apply to the results. Valid values are `max`, `l1norm`, `l2norm`.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name          | Type    | Description
| nodes         | int     | The number of nodes considered.
| writeProperty | string  | The property name written back to.
| write         | boolean | Specifies if the result was written back as node property.
| loadMillis    | int     | Milliseconds for loading data.
| computeMillis | int     | Milliseconds for running the algorithm.
| writeMillis   | int     | Milliseconds for writing result data back.
|===

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.eigenvector.stream(label:String, relationship:String,
    {concurrency:4})
YIELD node, score
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name             | Type   | Default                | Optional | Description
| label            | string | null                   | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes.
| relationship     | string | null                   | yes      | The relationship type to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes.
| concurrency      | int    | available CPUs         | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for running the algorithm. Also provides the default value for 'readConcurrency'.
| readConcurrency  | int    | value of 'concurrency' | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for reading the graph.
| weightProperty   | string | null                   | yes      | The property name that contains weight. If null, treats the graph as unweighted. Must be numeric.
| defaultValue     | float  | 0.0                    | yes      | The default value of the weight in case it is missing or invalid.
| graph            | string | 'huge'                 | yes      | Use 'huge' when describing the subset of the graph with label and relationship-type parameter. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset with cypher node statement and relationship statement.
| normalization    | string | null                   | yes      | The type of normalization to apply to the results. Valid values are `max`, `l1norm`, `l2norm`.
|===

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Name  | Type  | Description
| nodeId  | long  | Node ID
| score | float | Eigenvector Centrality weight
|===


[[algorithms-eigenvector-support]]
== Graph type support

The Eigenvector Centrality algorithm supports the following graph types:

* [x] directed, unweighted

* [] directed, weighted

* [x] undirected, unweighted

* [] undirected, weighted
