doc/asciidoc/labs-yens-k-shortest-paths.adoc, before:

[[labs-algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path]]
= The Yen's K-shortest paths algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Yen's K-shortest paths algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

Yen's K-shortest paths algorithm computes single-source K-shortest loopless paths for a graph with non-negative relationship weights.

[WARNING]
--
The Yen's K-shortest paths algorithm is experimental and not officially supported.
--

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the Yen's K-shortest paths algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-limitations, Constraints - when not to use the Yen's K-shortest paths algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-sample, Yen's K-shortest paths algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-cp, Cypher projection>>
* <<algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-syntax, Syntax>>
* <<algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-support, Graph type support>>
* <<algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-imp, Implementations>>


[[algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]
Algorithm was defined in 1971 by Jin Y. Yen in the research paper https://pubsonline.informs.org/doi/abs/10.1287/mnsc.17.11.712[Finding the K Shortest Loopless Paths in a Network].
Our implementation uses Dijkstra algorithm to find the shortest path and then proceeds to find k-1 deviations of the shortest paths.
// end::explanation[]


[[algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the Yen's K-shortest paths algorithm

// tag::use-case[]
* K-shortest paths algorithm has been used to optimize multiple object tracking by formalizing the motions of targets as flows along the relationships of the spatial graph.
  Find more in https://cvlab.epfl.ch/files/content/sites/cvlab2/files/publications/publications/2011/BerclazFTF11.pdf[Multiple Object Tracking using K-Shortest Paths Optimization]
* K-shortest paths algorithm is used to study alternative routing on road networks and to recommend top k-paths to the user.
  Find this study in https://www.informatik.hu-berlin.de/de/forschung/gebiete/wbi/research/publications/2015/sigspatial_kshortest.pdf[Alternative Routing: k-Shortest Paths with Limited Overlap]
* K-shortest paths algorithm has been used as part of https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/51e7/8aa2041d595b3871a49f4b92be725199e73d.pdf[Finding Diverse High-Quality Plans for Hypothesis Generation] process.
// end::use-case[]


[[algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-limitations]]
== Constraints - when not to use the Yen's K-shortest paths algorithm

// tag::constraint[]
Yen's K-Shortest paths algorithm does not support negative weights.
The algorithm assumes that adding a relationship to a path can never make a path shorter - an invariant that would be violated with negative weights.
// end::constraint[]


[[algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-sample]]
== Yen's K-shortest paths algorithm sample

image::yens.png[]

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/yens-k-shortest-paths.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/yens-k-shortest-paths.cypher[tag=stream-sample-graph]
----

// tag::stream[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `places`                    | `costs`                    | `totalCost`
| ["A", "B", "D", "E", "F"] | [50.0, 40.0, 30.0, 40.0] | 160.0
| ["A", "C", "D", "E", "F"] | [50.0, 40.0, 30.0, 40.0] | 160.0
| ["A", "B", "D", "F"]      | [50.0, 40.0, 80.0]       | 170.0
|===
// end::stream[]

This procedure doesn't return paths by default, but we can have it return those by passing in the config `path: true`.

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results, including paths:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/yens-k-shortest-paths.cypher[tag=stream-sample-with-path-graph]
----

image::yens-path.svg[]

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/yens-k-shortest-paths.cypher[tag=write-sample-graph]
----

// tag::write-sample-graph-result[]

.The following will return all 3 of the shortest path:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/yens-k-shortest-paths.cypher[tag=return-all-paths-sample-graph]
----

image::yens_result.png[]

// end::write-sample-graph-result[]

// tag::write-sample-graph-explanation[]
The quickest route takes us from A to B, via D and E and is saved as `PATH_0`.
Second quickest path is saved as `PATH_1` and third one is saved as`PATH_2`
// end::write-sample-graph-explanation[]


[[algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-cp]]
== Cypher projection

include::projected-graph-model/cypher-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'cypher'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/yens-k-shortest-paths.cypher[tag=cypher-loading]
----


[[algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.kShortestPaths(startNode:Node, endNode:Node, k:int, weightProperty:String,
    {nodeQuery:'labelName', relationshipQuery:'relationshipName', direction:'OUT', defaultValue:1.0,
    maxDepth:42, write:'true', writePropertyPrefix:'PATH_'})
YIELD resultCount, loadMillis, evalMillis, writeMillis

----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name                | Type    | Default     | Optional | Description
| startNode           | node    | null        | no       | The start node
| endNode             | node    | null        | no       | The end node
| weightProperty      | string  | null        | yes      | The property name that contains weight. If null, treats the graph as unweighted. Must be numeric.
| nodeQuery           | string  | null        | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| relationshipQuery   | string  | null        | yes      | The relationship type to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| direction           | string  | both        | yes      | The relationship direction to load from the graph. If 'both', treats the relationships as undirected
| defaultValue        | float   | null        | yes      | The default value of the weight in case it is missing or invalid
| maxDepth            | int     | Integer.MAX | yes      | The depth of the shortest paths traversal
| write               | boolean | true        | yes      | Specifies if the result should be written back as a node property
| writePropertyPrefix | string  | 'PATH_'     | yes      | The relationship-type prefix written back to the graph
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name        | Type | Description
| resultCount | int  | The number of shortest paths results
| loadMillis  | int  | Milliseconds for loading data
| evalMillis  | int  | Milliseconds for running the algorithm
| writeMillis | int  | Milliseconds for writing result data back
|===


[[algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-support]]
== Graph type support

The Shortest Path algorithms support the following graph types:

* [x] directed, unweighted:
** direction: 'OUTGOING' or INCOMING, weightProperty: null
* [x] directed, weighted
** direction: 'OUTGOING' or INCOMING, weightProperty: 'cost'
* [x] undirected, unweighted
** direction: 'BOTH', weightProperty: null
* [x] undirected, weighted
** direction: 'BOTH', weightProperty: 'cost'


[[algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-imp]]
== Implementations

`algo.kShortestPaths`

* Specify start and end node, find the k-shortest path between them.
* If initialized with an non-existing weight-property, it will treat the graph as unweighted.


ifndef::env-docs[]
== References

// tag::references[]

// end::references[]
endif::env-docs[]

ifdef::implementation[]
// tag::implementation[]


== Implementation details

:leveloffset: +1

Yen's algorithm computes single-source K-shortest loopless paths for a graph with non-negative relationship cost.
The algorithm was published by Jin Y. Yen in 1971 and employs any shortest path algorithm to find the best path, then proceeds to find K − 1 deviations of the best path.

## Progress

- [x] single threaded implementation
- [x] tests
- [x] simple benchmark
- [x] implement procedure
- [ ] benchmark on bigger graphs
- [ ] parallelization
- [ ] evaluation


// end::implementation[]
endif::implementation[]

Commit message:

Rephrase `experimental` to `labs` in docs content
Co-authored-by: Mats Rydberg <mats@neotechnology.com>

doc/asciidoc/labs-yens-k-shortest-paths.adoc, after:

[[labs-algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path]]
= The Yen's K-shortest paths algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Yen's K-shortest paths algorithm in the Neo4j Labs Graph Algorithms library.
--

Yen's K-shortest paths algorithm computes single-source K-shortest loopless paths for a graph with non-negative relationship weights.

[WARNING]
--
The Yen's K-shortest paths algorithm is part of Neo4j Labs and not supported for production purposes.
--

This section includes:

* <<algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-context, History and explanation>>
* <<algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-usecase, Use-cases - when to use the Yen's K-shortest paths algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-limitations, Constraints - when not to use the Yen's K-shortest paths algorithm>>
* <<algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-sample, Yen's K-shortest paths algorithm sample>>
* <<algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-cp, Cypher projection>>
* <<algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-syntax, Syntax>>
* <<algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-support, Graph type support>>
* <<algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-imp, Implementations>>


[[algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-context]]
== History and explanation

// tag::explanation[]
Algorithm was defined in 1971 by Jin Y. Yen in the research paper https://pubsonline.informs.org/doi/abs/10.1287/mnsc.17.11.712[Finding the K Shortest Loopless Paths in a Network].
Our implementation uses Dijkstra algorithm to find the shortest path and then proceeds to find k-1 deviations of the shortest paths.
// end::explanation[]


[[algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-usecase]]
== Use-cases - when to use the Yen's K-shortest paths algorithm

// tag::use-case[]
* K-shortest paths algorithm has been used to optimize multiple object tracking by formalizing the motions of targets as flows along the relationships of the spatial graph.
  Find more in https://cvlab.epfl.ch/files/content/sites/cvlab2/files/publications/publications/2011/BerclazFTF11.pdf[Multiple Object Tracking using K-Shortest Paths Optimization]
* K-shortest paths algorithm is used to study alternative routing on road networks and to recommend top k-paths to the user.
  Find this study in https://www.informatik.hu-berlin.de/de/forschung/gebiete/wbi/research/publications/2015/sigspatial_kshortest.pdf[Alternative Routing: k-Shortest Paths with Limited Overlap]
* K-shortest paths algorithm has been used as part of https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/51e7/8aa2041d595b3871a49f4b92be725199e73d.pdf[Finding Diverse High-Quality Plans for Hypothesis Generation] process.
// end::use-case[]


[[algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-limitations]]
== Constraints - when not to use the Yen's K-shortest paths algorithm

// tag::constraint[]
Yen's K-Shortest paths algorithm does not support negative weights.
The algorithm assumes that adding a relationship to a path can never make a path shorter - an invariant that would be violated with negative weights.
// end::constraint[]


[[algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-sample]]
== Yen's K-shortest paths algorithm sample

image::yens.png[]

.The following will create a sample graph:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/yens-k-shortest-paths.cypher[tag=create-sample-graph]
----

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/yens-k-shortest-paths.cypher[tag=stream-sample-graph]
----

// tag::stream[]
.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| `places`                    | `costs`                    | `totalCost`
| ["A", "B", "D", "E", "F"] | [50.0, 40.0, 30.0, 40.0] | 160.0
| ["A", "C", "D", "E", "F"] | [50.0, 40.0, 30.0, 40.0] | 160.0
| ["A", "B", "D", "F"]      | [50.0, 40.0, 80.0]       | 170.0
|===
// end::stream[]

This procedure doesn't return paths by default, but we can have it return those by passing in the config `path: true`.

.The following will run the algorithm and stream results, including paths:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/yens-k-shortest-paths.cypher[tag=stream-sample-with-path-graph]
----

image::yens-path.svg[]

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/yens-k-shortest-paths.cypher[tag=write-sample-graph]
----

// tag::write-sample-graph-result[]

.The following will return all 3 of the shortest path:
[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/yens-k-shortest-paths.cypher[tag=return-all-paths-sample-graph]
----

image::yens_result.png[]

// end::write-sample-graph-result[]

// tag::write-sample-graph-explanation[]
The quickest route takes us from A to B, via D and E and is saved as `PATH_0`.
Second quickest path is saved as `PATH_1` and third one is saved as`PATH_2`
// end::write-sample-graph-explanation[]


[[algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-cp]]
== Cypher projection

include::projected-graph-model/cypher-projection.adoc[tag=explanation]

.Set `graph:'cypher'` in the config:

[source, cypher]
----
include::scripts/yens-k-shortest-paths.cypher[tag=cypher-loading]
----


[[algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following will run the algorithm and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.kShortestPaths(startNode:Node, endNode:Node, k:int, weightProperty:String,
    {nodeQuery:'labelName', relationshipQuery:'relationshipName', direction:'OUT', defaultValue:1.0,
    maxDepth:42, write:'true', writePropertyPrefix:'PATH_'})
YIELD resultCount, loadMillis, evalMillis, writeMillis

----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name                | Type    | Default     | Optional | Description
| startNode           | node    | null        | no       | The start node
| endNode             | node    | null        | no       | The end node
| weightProperty      | string  | null        | yes      | The property name that contains weight. If null, treats the graph as unweighted. Must be numeric.
| nodeQuery           | string  | null        | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| relationshipQuery   | string  | null        | yes      | The relationship type to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| direction           | string  | both        | yes      | The relationship direction to load from the graph. If 'both', treats the relationships as undirected
| defaultValue        | float   | null        | yes      | The default value of the weight in case it is missing or invalid
| maxDepth            | int     | Integer.MAX | yes      | The depth of the shortest paths traversal
| write               | boolean | true        | yes      | Specifies if the result should be written back as a node property
| writePropertyPrefix | string  | 'PATH_'     | yes      | The relationship-type prefix written back to the graph
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name        | Type | Description
| resultCount | int  | The number of shortest paths results
| loadMillis  | int  | Milliseconds for loading data
| evalMillis  | int  | Milliseconds for running the algorithm
| writeMillis | int  | Milliseconds for writing result data back
|===


[[algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-support]]
== Graph type support

The Shortest Path algorithms support the following graph types:

* [x] directed, unweighted:
** direction: 'OUTGOING' or INCOMING, weightProperty: null
* [x] directed, weighted
** direction: 'OUTGOING' or INCOMING, weightProperty: 'cost'
* [x] undirected, unweighted
** direction: 'BOTH', weightProperty: null
* [x] undirected, weighted
** direction: 'BOTH', weightProperty: 'cost'


[[algorithms-yens-k-shortest-path-imp]]
== Implementations

`algo.kShortestPaths`

* Specify start and end node, find the k-shortest path between them.
* If initialized with an non-existing weight-property, it will treat the graph as unweighted.


ifndef::env-docs[]
== References

// tag::references[]

// end::references[]
endif::env-docs[]

ifdef::implementation[]
// tag::implementation[]


== Implementation details

:leveloffset: +1

Yen's algorithm computes single-source K-shortest loopless paths for a graph with non-negative relationship cost.
The algorithm was published by Jin Y. Yen in 1971 and employs any shortest path algorithm to find the best path, then proceeds to find K − 1 deviations of the best path.

## Progress

- [x] single threaded implementation
- [x] tests
- [x] simple benchmark
- [x] implement procedure
- [ ] benchmark on bigger graphs
- [ ] parallelization
- [ ] evaluation


// end::implementation[]
endif::implementation[]
