doc/asciidoc/memory-requirements.adoc, before:

[[memory-requirements]]
= Memory Requirements

[abstract]
--
This section describes memory requirements for the projected graph model used by the Neo4j Graph Algorithms Library.
--

The graph algorithms library operates completely on the heap, which means we'll need to configure our Neo4j Server with a much larger heap size than we would for transactional workloads.
The diagram belows shows how memory is used by the projected graph model:

image::graph-model-memory.png[width=500]

The model contains three types of data:

* Node ids - up to 2^31^ ("2 billion") for `graph: "heavy"` and up to 2^45^ ("35 trillion") for `graph: "huge"`
* Relationships - pairs of node ids. Relationships are stored twice if `direction: "BOTH"` config provided.
* Weights - stored as floats (4 bytes per node) in an array (`graph: "heavy"`) and in a https://github.com/carrotsearch/hppc[HPPC^] map (`graph: "huge"`)

Memory configuration depends on the graph projection that we're using.

This section includes:

* <<algo-memrec-procedure>>
* <<algo-memrec-sample>>
* <<memory-requirements-sample-graphs>>

[[algo-memrec-procedure]]
== `algo.memrec` procedure

The `algo.memrec` procedure returns an estimate of the amount of memory required to run graph algorithms.

.Syntax
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec(label, relationship, algorithm, config)
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name          | Type    | Default        | Optional | Description
| label         | string  | null           | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| relationship  | string  | null           | yes      | The relationship-type to load from the graph. If null, load all relationships
| algorithm | string  | null     | yes      | The name of a graph algorithm or `graph.load` to return the memory requirements for the in memory graph only.
h| Config ||||
| direction     | string  | 'OUTGOING'     | yes      | The relationship-direction to use in the algorithm
| graph         | string  | 'heavy'        | yes      | Use 'heavy' when describing the subset of the graph with label and relationship-type parameter. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset with cypher node-statement and relationship-statement
| concurrency   | int     | available CPUs | yes      | The number of concurrent threads
|===

Algorithm specific parameters can also be provided as config.

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name          | Type    | Description
| requiredMemory         | int     | The required memory in human readable format.
| bytesMin    | int     | The minimum number of bytes required.
| bytesMax | int   | The maximum number of bytes required.
| mapView | Map  | A breakdown of the memory used by different components involved in the execution of a graph algorithm.
|===

[NOTE]
====
`algo.memrec(label, relationship, algorithm, config)` maps to `algo.<algorithm>.memrec(label, relationship, config)`, which means that `CALL algo.memrec(null, null, "pageRank")` is equivalent to `CALL algo.pageRank.memrec(null, null)`
====

[[algo-memrec-sample]]
== `algo.memrec` sample

This sample will explain the `algo.memrec` procedure, using a Game of Thrones graphs.

.The following creates a graph containing Game of Thrones characters and the interactions between them.
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (c:Character) ASSERT c.id IS UNIQUE;

UNWIND range(1,7) AS season
LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS FROM "https://github.com/neo4j-apps/neuler/raw/master/sample-data/got/got-s" + season + "-nodes.csv" AS row
MERGE (c:Character {id: row.Id})
ON CREATE SET c.name = row.Label;

UNWIND range(1,7) AS season
LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS FROM "https://github.com/neo4j-apps/neuler/raw/master/sample-data/got/got-s" + season + "-edges.csv" AS row
MATCH (source:Character {id: row.Source})
MATCH (target:Character {id: row.Target})
CALL apoc.merge.relationship(source, "INTERACTS_SEASON" + season, {}, {}, target) YIELD rel
SET rel.weight = toInteger(row.Weight);
----

=== Heavy graph projection

This is the default graph projection, and supports graphs up to 2 billion nodes and 2 billion relationships.

.The following computes the amount of memory required by the heavy in memory graph for any node label and any relationship type:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec(null, null, "graph.load")
YIELD nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
RETURN nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| 400 | 3551 | 40 KiB  | 41456    | 41456
|===

.The following computes the amount of memory required by the heavy in memory graph for node label `Character` and relationship type `INTERACTS_SEASON1`:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec("Character", "INTERACTS_SEASON1", "graph.load")
YIELD nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
RETURN nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| 400 | 550 | 27 KiB  | 28656    | 28656
|===

.The following computes the amount of memory required by the heavy in memory graph for node label `Character`, relationship type `INTERACTS_SEASON1`, and direction `BOTH`:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec("Character", "INTERACTS_SEASON1", "graph.load", {direction: "BOTH"})
YIELD nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
RETURN nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| 400 | 550 | 40 KiB  | 41488    | 41488
|===


=== Huge graph projection

This graph projection supports graphs with more than 2 billion nodes or 2 billion relationships.

.The following computes the amount of memory required by the huge in memory graph for any node label and any relationship type:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec(null, null, "graph.load", {graph: "huge"})
YIELD nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
RETURN nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| 400 | 3551 | 299 KiB  | 306688    | 306688
|===

.The following computes the amount of memory required by the huge in memory graph for node label `Character` and relationship type `INTERACTS_SEASON1`:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec("Character", "INTERACTS_SEASON1", "graph.load", {graph: "huge"})
YIELD nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
RETURN nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| 400 | 550 | 299 KiB  | 306680    | 306680
|===

.The following computes the amount of memory required by the huge in memory graph for node label `Character`, relationship type `INTERACTS_SEASON1`, and direction `BOTH`:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec("Character", "INTERACTS_SEASON1", "graph.load", {direction: "BOTH", graph: "huge"})
YIELD nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
RETURN nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| 400 | 550 | 563 KiB  | 577112    | 577112
|===

=== Cypher graph projection

This graph projection supports graphs up to 2 billion nodes and 2 billion relationships, specfied by Cypher queries that return node ids.

.The following computes the amount of memory required by the in memory graph for all nodes and relationships:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec(
  "MATCH (n) RETURN id(n) AS id",
  "MATCH (a)-->(b) RETURN id(a) AS source, id(b) as target",
  "graph.load",
  {graph: "cypher"}
)
YIELD nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
RETURN nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| 400 | 3551 | 40 KiB  | 41456    | 41456
|===

.The following computes the amount of memory required by the heavy in memory graph for node label `Character` and relationship type `INTERACTS_SEASON1`:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec(
  "MATCH (n:Character) RETURN id(n) AS id",
  "MATCH (a:Character)-[:INTERACTS_SEASON1]->(b) RETURN id(a) AS source, id(b) as target",
  "graph.load",
  {graph: "cypher"}
)
YIELD nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
RETURN nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| 400 | 3551 | 40 KiB  | 41456    | 41456
|===

=== Named Graph


.The following creates a heavy in memory graph named `my-graph` for the node label `Character` and relationship type `INTERACTS_SEASON3`:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.load("my-graph6", "Character", "INTERACTS_SEASON3")
YIELD name, graph, direction, nodes, relationships
RETURN name, graph, direction, nodes, relationships
----

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Name | Graph | Direction | Nodes | Relationships
| my-graph | heavy | OUTGOING | 400 | 504
|===

.The following computes the amount of memory being used by the graph named `my-graph`:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec(null, null, "graph.load", {graph: "my-graph"})
YIELD nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
RETURN nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| 400 |	504 |	27 KiB |	28656 |	28656
|===

[[memory-requirements-sample-graphs]]
== Memory Requirements on Sample Graphs

Below are the memory requirements for various sample datasets.
These numbers are computed by running the following queries:

.Heavy Graph
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec(null, null, "graph.load", {graph: "heavy"})
----

.Huge Graph
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec(null, null, "graph.load", {graph: "huge"})
----

=== Pokec

This dataset contains people and friends relationships from https://snap.stanford.edu/data/soc-Pokec.html[Pokec^], the most popular online social network in Slovakia.

.Memory Usage
[opts="header", cols="1,1,1,2,1,1"]
|===
| Graph Type | Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| Heavy | 1,632,803 | 30,622,564 | 222 MiB  | 233205960    | 233205960
| Huge | 1,632,803 | 30,622,564 | 	[74 MiB...130 MiB]  | 78560176    | 137284912
|===


=== Dbpedia

This dataset contains Wikipedia pages and the links between them.
Instructions for importing this dataset are available from https://github.com/jexp/graphipedia[jexp/graphipedia^].

.Memory Usage
[opts="header", cols="1,1,1,2,1,1"]
|===
| Graph Type | Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| Heavy | 11,474,730 | 116,601,029 | 1067 MiB  | 1119305360    | 1119305360
| Huge | 11,474,730 | 116,601,029 | 	[438 MiB...657 MiB]  | 459722704    | 689148984
|===

=== Twitter 2010

This dataset contains users and followers from a crawl of Twitter presented by Haewoon Kwak, Changhyun Lee, Hosung Park, and Sue Moon in “What is Twitter, a Social Network or a News Media?”

.Memory Usage
[opts="header", cols="1,1,1,2,1,1"]
|===
| Graph Type | Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| Heavy | 41,652,230 | 1,468,365,182 | 7759 MiB  | 8136099216    | 8136099216
| Huge | 41,652,230 | 1,468,365,182 | 	[2582 MiB...5363 MiB]  | 2708130496    | 5623918504
|===

=== Friendster

This dataset contains people and friends relationships from https://snap.stanford.edu/data/com-Friendster.html[Friendster^], the online gaming network.

.Memory Usage
[opts="header", cols="1,1,1,2,1,1"]
|===
| Graph Type | Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| Heavy | 65,608,366 | 1,806,067,135 | 10545 MiB  | 11058217808    | 11058217808
| Huge | 65,608,366 | 1,806,067,135 | 	[3567 MiB...8635 MiB]  | 3740896712    | 9055485320
|===

Commit message:

add note to explain slower memrec on cypher projection

doc/asciidoc/memory-requirements.adoc, after:

[[memory-requirements]]
= Memory Requirements

[abstract]
--
This section describes memory requirements for the projected graph model used by the Neo4j Graph Algorithms Library.
--

The graph algorithms library operates completely on the heap, which means we'll need to configure our Neo4j Server with a much larger heap size than we would for transactional workloads.
The diagram belows shows how memory is used by the projected graph model:

image::graph-model-memory.png[width=500]

The model contains three types of data:

* Node ids - up to 2^31^ ("2 billion") for `graph: "heavy"` and up to 2^45^ ("35 trillion") for `graph: "huge"`
* Relationships - pairs of node ids. Relationships are stored twice if `direction: "BOTH"` config provided.
* Weights - stored as floats (4 bytes per node) in an array (`graph: "heavy"`) and in a https://github.com/carrotsearch/hppc[HPPC^] map (`graph: "huge"`)

Memory configuration depends on the graph projection that we're using.

This section includes:

* <<algo-memrec-procedure>>
* <<algo-memrec-sample>>
* <<memory-requirements-sample-graphs>>

[[algo-memrec-procedure]]
== `algo.memrec` procedure

The `algo.memrec` procedure returns an estimate of the amount of memory required to run graph algorithms.

.Syntax
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec(label, relationship, algorithm, config)
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name          | Type    | Default        | Optional | Description
| label         | string  | null           | yes      | The label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes
| relationship  | string  | null           | yes      | The relationship-type to load from the graph. If null, load all relationships
| algorithm | string  | null     | yes      | The name of a graph algorithm or `graph.load` to return the memory requirements for the in memory graph only.
h| Config ||||
| direction     | string  | 'OUTGOING'     | yes      | The relationship-direction to use in the algorithm
| graph         | string  | 'heavy'        | yes      | Use 'heavy' when describing the subset of the graph with label and relationship-type parameter. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset with cypher node-statement and relationship-statement
| concurrency   | int     | available CPUs | yes      | The number of concurrent threads
|===

Algorithm specific parameters can also be provided as config.

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name          | Type    | Description
| requiredMemory         | int     | The required memory in human readable format.
| bytesMin    | int     | The minimum number of bytes required.
| bytesMax | int   | The maximum number of bytes required.
| mapView | Map  | A breakdown of the memory used by different components involved in the execution of a graph algorithm.
|===

[NOTE]
====
`algo.memrec(label, relationship, algorithm, config)` maps to `algo.<algorithm>.memrec(label, relationship, config)`, which means that `CALL algo.memrec(null, null, "pageRank")` is equivalent to `CALL algo.pageRank.memrec(null, null)`
====

[[algo-memrec-sample]]
== `algo.memrec` sample

This sample will explain the `algo.memrec` procedure, using a Game of Thrones graphs.

.The following creates a graph containing Game of Thrones characters and the interactions between them.
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (c:Character) ASSERT c.id IS UNIQUE;

UNWIND range(1,7) AS season
LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS FROM "https://github.com/neo4j-apps/neuler/raw/master/sample-data/got/got-s" + season + "-nodes.csv" AS row
MERGE (c:Character {id: row.Id})
ON CREATE SET c.name = row.Label;

UNWIND range(1,7) AS season
LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS FROM "https://github.com/neo4j-apps/neuler/raw/master/sample-data/got/got-s" + season + "-edges.csv" AS row
MATCH (source:Character {id: row.Source})
MATCH (target:Character {id: row.Target})
CALL apoc.merge.relationship(source, "INTERACTS_SEASON" + season, {}, {}, target) YIELD rel
SET rel.weight = toInteger(row.Weight);
----

=== Heavy graph projection

This is the default graph projection, and supports graphs up to 2 billion nodes and 2 billion relationships.

.The following computes the amount of memory required by the heavy in memory graph for any node label and any relationship type:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec(null, null, "graph.load")
YIELD nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
RETURN nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| 400 | 3551 | 40 KiB  | 41456    | 41456
|===

.The following computes the amount of memory required by the heavy in memory graph for node label `Character` and relationship type `INTERACTS_SEASON1`:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec("Character", "INTERACTS_SEASON1", "graph.load")
YIELD nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
RETURN nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| 400 | 550 | 27 KiB  | 28656    | 28656
|===

.The following computes the amount of memory required by the heavy in memory graph for node label `Character`, relationship type `INTERACTS_SEASON1`, and direction `BOTH`:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec("Character", "INTERACTS_SEASON1", "graph.load", {direction: "BOTH"})
YIELD nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
RETURN nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| 400 | 550 | 40 KiB  | 41488    | 41488
|===


=== Huge graph projection

This graph projection supports graphs with more than 2 billion nodes or 2 billion relationships.

.The following computes the amount of memory required by the huge in memory graph for any node label and any relationship type:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec(null, null, "graph.load", {graph: "huge"})
YIELD nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
RETURN nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| 400 | 3551 | 299 KiB  | 306688    | 306688
|===

.The following computes the amount of memory required by the huge in memory graph for node label `Character` and relationship type `INTERACTS_SEASON1`:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec("Character", "INTERACTS_SEASON1", "graph.load", {graph: "huge"})
YIELD nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
RETURN nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| 400 | 550 | 299 KiB  | 306680    | 306680
|===

.The following computes the amount of memory required by the huge in memory graph for node label `Character`, relationship type `INTERACTS_SEASON1`, and direction `BOTH`:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec("Character", "INTERACTS_SEASON1", "graph.load", {direction: "BOTH", graph: "huge"})
YIELD nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
RETURN nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| 400 | 550 | 563 KiB  | 577112    | 577112
|===

=== Cypher graph projection

This graph projection supports graphs up to 2 billion nodes and 2 billion relationships, specfied by Cypher queries that return node ids.

[NOTE]
====
`algo.memrec` executes the provided Cypher queries to compute the number of nodes and relationships in the projected graph.
The results from running the procedure for Cypher graph projections will therefore not be immediate, as they will be with other graph projections.
====

.The following computes the amount of memory required by the in memory graph for all nodes and relationships:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec(
  "MATCH (n) RETURN id(n) AS id",
  "MATCH (a)-->(b) RETURN id(a) AS source, id(b) as target",
  "graph.load",
  {graph: "cypher"}
)
YIELD nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
RETURN nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| 400 | 3551 | 40 KiB  | 41456    | 41456
|===

.The following computes the amount of memory required by the heavy in memory graph for node label `Character` and relationship type `INTERACTS_SEASON1`:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec(
  "MATCH (n:Character) RETURN id(n) AS id",
  "MATCH (a:Character)-[:INTERACTS_SEASON1]->(b) RETURN id(a) AS source, id(b) as target",
  "graph.load",
  {graph: "cypher"}
)
YIELD nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
RETURN nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| 400 | 3551 | 40 KiB  | 41456    | 41456
|===

=== Named Graph


.The following creates a heavy in memory graph named `my-graph` for the node label `Character` and relationship type `INTERACTS_SEASON3`:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.graph.load("my-graph6", "Character", "INTERACTS_SEASON3")
YIELD name, graph, direction, nodes, relationships
RETURN name, graph, direction, nodes, relationships
----

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Name | Graph | Direction | Nodes | Relationships
| my-graph | heavy | OUTGOING | 400 | 504
|===

.The following computes the amount of memory being used by the graph named `my-graph`:
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec(null, null, "graph.load", {graph: "my-graph"})
YIELD nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
RETURN nodes, relationships, requiredMemory, bytesMin, bytesMax
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| 400 |	504 |	27 KiB |	28656 |	28656
|===

[[memory-requirements-sample-graphs]]
== Memory Requirements on Sample Graphs

Below are the memory requirements for various sample datasets.
These numbers are computed by running the following queries:

.Heavy Graph
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec(null, null, "graph.load", {graph: "heavy"})
----

.Huge Graph
[source,cypher]
----
CALL algo.memrec(null, null, "graph.load", {graph: "huge"})
----

=== Pokec

This dataset contains people and friends relationships from https://snap.stanford.edu/data/soc-Pokec.html[Pokec^], the most popular online social network in Slovakia.

.Memory Usage
[opts="header", cols="1,1,1,2,1,1"]
|===
| Graph Type | Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| Heavy | 1,632,803 | 30,622,564 | 222 MiB  | 233205960    | 233205960
| Huge | 1,632,803 | 30,622,564 | 	[74 MiB...130 MiB]  | 78560176    | 137284912
|===


=== Dbpedia

This dataset contains Wikipedia pages and the links between them.
Instructions for importing this dataset are available from https://github.com/jexp/graphipedia[jexp/graphipedia^].

.Memory Usage
[opts="header", cols="1,1,1,2,1,1"]
|===
| Graph Type | Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| Heavy | 11,474,730 | 116,601,029 | 1067 MiB  | 1119305360    | 1119305360
| Huge | 11,474,730 | 116,601,029 | 	[438 MiB...657 MiB]  | 459722704    | 689148984
|===

=== Twitter 2010

This dataset contains users and followers from a crawl of Twitter presented by Haewoon Kwak, Changhyun Lee, Hosung Park, and Sue Moon in “What is Twitter, a Social Network or a News Media?”

.Memory Usage
[opts="header", cols="1,1,1,2,1,1"]
|===
| Graph Type | Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| Heavy | 41,652,230 | 1,468,365,182 | 7759 MiB  | 8136099216    | 8136099216
| Huge | 41,652,230 | 1,468,365,182 | 	[2582 MiB...5363 MiB]  | 2708130496    | 5623918504
|===

=== Friendster

This dataset contains people and friends relationships from https://snap.stanford.edu/data/com-Friendster.html[Friendster^], the online gaming network.

.Memory Usage
[opts="header", cols="1,1,1,2,1,1"]
|===
| Graph Type | Nodes | Relationships | Required Memory | Bytes Min | Bytes Max
| Heavy | 65,608,366 | 1,806,067,135 | 10545 MiB  | 11058217808    | 11058217808
| Huge | 65,608,366 | 1,806,067,135 | 	[3567 MiB...8635 MiB]  | 3740896712    | 9055485320
|===
