doc/asciidoc/migration-algos-common.adoc, before:

[[migration-algos-common]]
= Common changes

This section describes changes between Graph Analytics library  and Graph Data Science library that are common to all procedures.

.Namespace
[opts=header,cols="1,1"]
|===
|GA     | GDS
|algo.* | gds.*
|===

.Changes in Parameters
[opts=header,cols="1,1,1"]
|===
|GA                 | GDS Named Graph   | GDS Anonymous Graph
| -                 | graphName         | graphConfiguration
| node label footnote:common-inlined[Parameter is inlined into `graphConfiguration`]        | -                 | -
| relationship type footnote:common-inlined[] | -                 | -
| direction         | -                 | -
| config            | configuration     | -
|===

.Changes in configuration parameter map
[opts=header,cols="1,1"]
|===
|GA     | GDS
|write: true | Replaced by dedicated `write` mode
|graph: 'cypher'\|'huge' | Removed. Always using `huge` graph
footnote:graph-param[Graph creation with cypher queries has dedicate `gds.graph.create.cypher` procedure. There are parameters `nodeQuery` and `relationshipQuery` for anonymous graphs]
|direction | Replaced by `projection` parameter of `relationshipProjection`
|direction: 'OUTGOING' | projection: 'NATURAL'
|direction: 'INCOMING' | projection: 'REVERSE'
|direction: 'BOTH' | projection: 'UNDIRECTED'
|===

Commit message:

Correct documentation for `direction: BOTH`
Co-authored-by: Paul Horn <paul.horn@neotechnology.com>

doc/asciidoc/migration-algos-common.adoc, after:

[[migration-algos-common]]
= Common changes

This section describes changes between Graph Algorithms library  and Graph Data Science library that are common to all procedures.

.Namespace
[opts=header,cols="1,1"]
|===
|GA     | GDS
|algo.* | gds.*
|===

.Changes in Parameters
[opts=header,cols="1,1,1"]
|===
|GA                 | GDS Named Graph   | GDS Anonymous Graph
| -                 | graphName         | graphConfiguration
| node label footnote:common-node-inlined[Moved to `graphConfiguration` as `nodeProjection`]        | -                 | -
| relationship type footnote:common-rel-inlined[Moved to `graphConfiguration` as `relationshipProjection`] | -                 | -
| direction         | -                 | -
| config            | configuration     | -
|===

.Changes in configuration parameter map
[opts=header,cols="1,1"]
|===
|GA     | GDS
|`write: true` | Replaced by dedicated `write` mode
|`graph: 'cypher'\|'huge'` | Removed. Always using `huge` graph footnote:graph-param[Graph creation with cypher queries has dedicate `gds.graph.create.cypher` procedure. There are parameters `nodeQuery` and `relationshipQuery` for anonymous graphs]
|direction | Replaced by `projection` parameter of `relationshipProjection`
|`direction: 'OUTGOING'` | `projection: 'NATURAL'`
|`direction: 'INCOMING'` | `projection: 'REVERSE'`
|`direction: 'BOTH'` | Removed footnote:direction-both[This behaviour can be achieved by creating two relationship projections - one with `projection: 'NATURAL'` and one with `projection: 'REVERSE'`. See <<direction-both-example, this example>>]
|`undirected: true` | Replaced by `projection: 'UNDIRECTED'` parameter of `relationshipProjection`
|duplicateRelationships | Replaced by `aggregation` parameter of `relationshipProjection`
|`duplicateRelationships: 'SKIP'` | `aggregation: 'SINGLE'`
|`iterations` | `maxIterations`
|===
