doc/asciidoc/migration-guide.adoc, before:

[[migration-guide]]
= Migration Guide


[abstract]
--
This section explains how to migrate from the Neo4j Graph Algorithms (GA) library to the Neo4j Graph Data Science (GDS) library.
--


// This section should cover these aspects:
//general concepts, ideally with some examples:
//- explicit creation >> implicit creation (named graphs >> anonymous graphs)
//- {node,relationship}Projections
//- no more (global) direction --> projection
//-- how to replace BOTH with two projections
//- no more global deduplication --> projection/aggregation
//-- SKIP -> SINGLE
//- take notes from api-overview.adoc
//-- move api-overview into public docs?
//
//procedure namespace changes
//- algo.* -> gds.*
//- explicit write mode
//- memrec -> estimate
//-- no more algo.memrec
//- labs algos: algo.* -> gds.alpha.*
//- beta algos: algo.beta.* -> gds.beta.*
//
//call syntax changes
//- always <algo>(graphNameOrConfig, configOrNothing)
//-- e.g. pageRank
//-- e.g. shortestPath
//
//config changes
//- no more `write`, `graph`, `direction`, `batchSize`, `undirected`, `sort` parameters
//- `iterations` -> `maxIterations`
//
//output changes
//- always return `configuration`
//-- for some procs, a value has moved, e.g. pageRank
//- community stats always in a map (percentiles, …)
//- consistent naming of e.g. `communityId`
//-- labelPropagation: labelId -> communityId
//- loadMillis -> createMillis
//
//installation changes?
//- unrestricted_procedures: algo.* -> gds.*


*GDS* refers to the Graph Data Science library.

*GA* refers to the Graph Algorithms library

== Syntax

. <<graph-ops, Graph Operations>>
. <<product-algos, Production-quality algorithms>>

include::migration-graph-ops.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::migration-product-algos.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

//include::migration-beta-algos.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

//include::migration-alpha-algos.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

Commit message:

Add note on who should read this guide
- Add leading paragraph explaining the Syntax section

Co-authored-by: Mats Rydberg <mats@neotechnology.com>

doc/asciidoc/migration-guide.adoc, after:

[[migration-guide]]
= Migration Guide


[abstract]
--
This section explains how to migrate from the Neo4j Graph Algorithms (GA) library to the Neo4j Graph Data Science (GDS) library.
--


// This section should cover these aspects:
//general concepts, ideally with some examples:
//- explicit creation >> implicit creation (named graphs >> anonymous graphs)
//- {node,relationship}Projections
//- no more (global) direction --> projection
//-- how to replace BOTH with two projections
//- no more global deduplication --> projection/aggregation
//-- SKIP -> SINGLE
//- take notes from api-overview.adoc
//-- move api-overview into public docs?
//
//procedure namespace changes
//- algo.* -> gds.*
//- explicit write mode
//- memrec -> estimate
//-- no more algo.memrec
//- labs algos: algo.* -> gds.alpha.*
//- beta algos: algo.beta.* -> gds.beta.*
//
//call syntax changes
//- always <algo>(graphNameOrConfig, configOrNothing)
//-- e.g. pageRank
//-- e.g. shortestPath
//
//config changes
//- no more `write`, `graph`, `direction`, `batchSize`, `undirected`, `sort` parameters
//- `iterations` -> `maxIterations`
//
//output changes
//- always return `configuration`
//-- for some procs, a value has moved, e.g. pageRank
//- community stats always in a map (percentiles, …)
//- consistent naming of e.g. `communityId`
//-- labelPropagation: labelId -> communityId
//- loadMillis -> createMillis
//
//installation changes?
//- unrestricted_procedures: algo.* -> gds.*

== Who should read this guide

This migration guide is intended for users who are familiar with the Graph Algorithms library.
We assume that most of the mentioned operations and concepts can be understood with little explanation.
Thus we are intentionally brief in the examples and comparisons.
Please see the dedicated chapters in this manual for details on all the features in the Graph Data Science library.


== Syntax

In this section we will focus on side-by-side examples of operations using the syntax of the Graph Algorithms library and Graph Data Science library, respectively.
In the tables below *GA* refers to the Graph Algorithms library and *GDS* refers to the Graph Data Science library.

This section is divided into the following sub-sections:

. <<graph-ops, Graph Operations>>
. <<product-algos, Production-quality algorithms>>

include::migration-graph-ops.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::migration-product-algos.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

//include::migration-beta-algos.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

//include::migration-alpha-algos.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
