doc/asciidoc/neighborhood-similarity.adoc, before:

[[algorithms-neighborhood-similarity]]
= The Neighborhood Similarity algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Neighborhood Similarity (NHS) algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

This topic includes:

* <<algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-intro, Introduction>>
* <<algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-syntax, Syntax>>
* <<algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-examples, Examples>>
** <<algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-examples-stream, Streaming results>>
** <<algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-examples-write, Writing results>>
** <<algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-examples-top-topk, Top and topK>>
** <<algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-examples-degree-similarity-cutoff, Degree cutoff and similarity cutoff>>


[[algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-intro]]
== Introduction

The Neighborhood Similarity algorithm compares a set of nodes based on the nodes they are connected to.
Two nodes are considered to be similar if they share many of the same neighbors.
Neighborhood Similarity computes pair-wise similarities based on the Jaccard metric.

The input of this algorithm is a bipartite, connected graph containing two disjoint node sets.
Each relationship starts from a node in the first node set and ends at a node in the second node set.
The NHS algorithm compares all nodes from the first node set with each other based on their relationships to nodes in the second set.
The complexity of this comparison grows quadratically with the number of nodes to compare.
The algorithm reduces the complexity by ignoring disconnected nodes.

In addition to computational complexity, the memory requirement for producing results also scales roughly quadratically.
In order to bound memory usage, the algorithm requires an explicit limit on the number of results to compute per node.
This is the 'topK' parameter.
It can be set to any value, except 0.

The output of the algorithm are new relationships between pairs of the first node set.
Similarity scores are expressed via relationship properties.

For more information on this algorithm, see:

* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Similarity_(network_science)#Structural_equivalence[Structural equivalence (Wikipedia)]
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jaccard_index[The Jaccard index (Wikipedia)].
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bipartite_graph[Bipartite graphs (Wikipedia)]

[NOTE]
====
Running this algorithm requires sufficient available memory.
Before running this algorithm, we recommend that you read <<memory-requirements>>.
====


[[algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following describes the API for running the algorithm and writing results back to Neo4j:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.beta.jaccard(nodeFilter: STRING, relationshipFilter: STRING, {
  write: BOOLEAN,
  writeProperty: STRING
  // additional configuration
})
YIELD nodesCompared, relationships, write, writeRelationshipType, writeProperty
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1m,1,4"]
|===
| Name               | Type    | Default | Optional | Description
| nodeFilter         | string  | null    | yes      | The node label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes.
| relationshipFilter | string  | null    | yes      | The relationship types to load from the graph. If null, load all relationships.
| config             | map     | {}      | yes      | Additional configuration, see below.
|===

.Configuration
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name                  | Type    | Default                | Optional | Description
| graph                 | string  | 'huge'                 | yes      | Use 'huge' when describing the subset of the graph with node label and relationship type parameters. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset using Cypher queries for nodes and relationships.
| concurrency           | int     | available CPUs         | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for running the algorithm. Also provides the default value for 'readConcurrency' and 'writeConcurrency'. This is dependent on the Neo4j edition; for more information, see <<system-requirements-cpu>>.
| readConcurrency       | int     | value of 'concurrency' | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for reading the graph.
| writeConcurrency      | int     | value of 'concurrency' | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for writing the result.
| write                 | boolean | true                   | yes      | Specifies if the result should be written back as a node property.
| writeRelationshipType | string  | SIMILAR                | yes      | The relationship type used to represent a similarity score.
| writeProperty         | string  | 'score'                | yes      | The relationship property that stores the similarity score.
| similarityCutoff      | float   | 0.0                    | yes      | Lower limit for the similarity score to be present in the result.
| degreeCutoff          | int     | 1                      | yes      | Lower limit on the node degree for a node to be considered in the comparisons. This value can not be lower than 1.
| top                   | int     | 0                      | yes      | Global limit on the number of scores computed. If positive, the result is ordered descending, otherwise ascending.
| topK                  | int     | 10                     | yes      | Limit on the number of scores computed per node. If positive, the result is ordered descending, otherwise ascending. This value can not be 0.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name                  | Type    | Description
| nodesCompared         | int     | The number of nodes compared.
| relationships         | int     | The number of relationships created.
| write                 | boolean | Specifies if the result was written back as a node property.
| writeRelationshipType | string  | The relationship type used to represent a similarity score.
| writeProperty         | string  | The relationship property that stores the similarity score.
| loadMillis            | int     | Milliseconds for loading data.
| computeMillis         | int     | Milliseconds for running the algorithm.
| writeMillis           | int     | Milliseconds for writing result data back.
| postProcessingMillis  | int     | Milliseconds for computing percentiles.
| min                   | double  | The minimum similarity score computed.
| max                   | double  | The maximum similarity score computed.
| mean                  | double  | The mean of similarities scores computed.
| stdDev                | double  | The standard deviation of similarities scores computed.
| p1                    | double  | The 1 percentile of similarity scores computed.
| p5                    | double  | The 5 percentile of similarity scores computed.
| p10                   | double  | The 10 percentile of similarity scores computed.
| p25                   | double  | The 25 percentile of similarity scores computed.
| p50                   | double  | The 50 percentile of similarity scores computed.
| p75                   | double  | The 75 percentile of similarity scores computed.
| p90                   | double  | The 90 percentile of similarity scores computed.
| p95                   | double  | The 95 percentile of similarity scores computed.
| p99                   | double  | The 99 percentile of similarity scores computed.
| p100                  | double  | The 100 percentile of similarity scores computed.
|===

[[algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-syntax-stream]]
.The following describes the API for running the algorithm and streaming results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.beta.jaccard.stream(nodeFilter: STRING, relationshipFilter: STRING, {
  // configuration
})
YIELD node1, node2, similarity
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name               | Type    | Default      | Optional | Description
| nodeFilter         | string  | null         | yes      | The node label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes.
| relationshipFilter | string  | null         | yes      | The relationship types to load from the graph. If null, load all relationships.
| config             | map     | {}           | yes      | Additional configuration, see below.
|===

.Configuration
[opts="header",cols="1m,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name              | Type    | Default                | Optional | Description
| graph             | string  | 'huge'                 | yes      | Use 'huge' when describing the subset of the graph with node label and relationship type parameters. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset using Cypher queries for nodes and relationships.
| concurrency       | int     | available CPUs         | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for running the algorithm. Also provides the default value for 'readConcurrency' and 'writeConcurrency'. This is dependent on the Neo4j edition; for more information, see <<system-requirements-cpu>>.
| readConcurrency   | int     | value of 'concurrency' | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for reading the graph.
| similarityCutoff  | float   | 0.0                    | yes      | Lower limit for the similarity score to be present in the result.
| degreeCutoff      | int     | 1                      | yes      | Lower limit on the node degree for a node to be considered in the comparisons. This value can not be lower than 1.
| top               | int     | 0                      | yes      | Global limit on the number of scores computed. If positive, the result is ordered descending, otherwise ascending.
| topK              | int     | 10                     | yes      | Limit on the number of scores computed per node. If positive, the result is ordered descending, otherwise ascending. This value can not be 0.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1m,1,6"]
|===
| Name          | Type     | Description
| node1         | int      | Node ID
| node2         | int      | Node ID
| similarity    | double   | Similarity score
|===


[[algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-examples]]
== Examples

Consider the graph created by the following Cypher statement:

[source, cypher]
----
CREATE (alice:Person {name: 'Alice'})
CREATE (bob:Person {name: 'Bob'})
CREATE (carol:Person {name: 'Carol'})
CREATE (dave:Person {name: 'Dave'})
CREATE (eve:Person {name: 'Eve'})
CREATE (guitar:Instrument {name: 'Guitar'})
CREATE (synth:Instrument {name: 'Synthesizer'})
CREATE (bongos:Instrument {name: 'Bongos'})
CREATE (trumpet:Instrument {name: 'Trumpet'})

CREATE (alice)-[:LIKES]->(guitar)
CREATE (alice)-[:LIKES]->(synth)
CREATE (alice)-[:LIKES]->(bongos)
CREATE (bob)-[:LIKES]->(guitar)
CREATE (bob)-[:LIKES]->(synth)
CREATE (carol)-[:LIKES]->(bongos)
CREATE (dave)-[:LIKES]->(guitar)
CREATE (dave)-[:LIKES]->(synth)
CREATE (dave)-[:LIKES]->(bongos);
----

This bipartite graph has two node sets, Person nodes and Instrument nodes.
The two node sets are connected via LIKES relationships.
Each relationship starts at a Person node and ends at an Instrument node.

In the example, we want to use NHS to compare persons based on the instruments they like.

The NHS algorithm will only compute similarity for nodes that have a degree of at least 1.
In the example graph, the Eve node will not be compared to other Person nodes.

The graph is bipartite, but the library does not support loading multiple node labels.
In order to load both node sets, Persons and Instruments, we need to pass an empty node filter.

[NOTE]
====
Loading a graph with an empty node filter means all the nodes in the Neo4j graph are loaded.
To circumvent this, an common node label like 'Node' can be added to Person and Instrument nodes.
====


[[algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-examples-stream]]
=== Streaming results

.The following will load the graph, run the algorithm, and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.beta.jaccard.stream('', 'LIKES', {
  graph: 'huge',
  direction: 'OUTGOING'
})
YIELD node1, node2, similarity
RETURN algo.asNode(node1).name AS Person1, algo.asNode(node2).name AS Person2, similarity
ORDER BY similarity DESCENDING, Person1, Person2
----

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Person1 | Person2 | similarity
| "Alice" | "Dave"  | 1.0
| "Dave"  | "Alice" | 1.0
| "Alice" | "Bob"   | 0.6666666666666666
| "Bob"   | "Alice" | 0.6666666666666666
| "Bob"   | "Dave"  | 0.6666666666666666
| "Dave"  | "Bob"   | 0.6666666666666666
| "Alice" | "Carol" | 0.3333333333333333
| "Carol" | "Alice" | 0.3333333333333333
| "Carol" | "Dave"  | 0.3333333333333333
| "Dave"  | "Carol" | 0.3333333333333333
| "Bob"   | "Carol" | 0.0
| "Carol" | "Bob"   | 0.0
3+|12 rows
|===

We use default values for the procedure configuration parameter.
TopK is set to 10, top is set to 0.
Because of that the result set contains the top 10 similarity scores for each node.


[[algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-examples-write]]
=== Writing results

To instead write the similarity results back to the graph in Neo4j, use the following query.
Each result is written as a relationship between the compared nodes.
The similarity score is written as a property on the relationship.

.The following will load the graph, run the algorithm, and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.beta.jaccard('', 'LIKES', {
  graph: 'huge',
  direction: 'OUTGOING',
  write: true
})
YIELD nodesCompared, relationships, write, writeProperty, writeRelationshipType;
----

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| nodesCompared | relationships | write | writeProperty | writeRelationshipType
| 4             | 12            | true  | "score"       | "SIMILAR"
|===

As we can see from the results, the number of created relationships is equal to the number of rows in the streaming example.


[[algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-examples-top-topk]]
=== TopK and top

TopK is a limit on the number of scores computed per node.
If the given value is positive, the results per node are ordered descending.
If a negative value is used, the results are ordered ascending.
TopK cannot be 0 and the default value is 10.

.The following will load the graph, run the algorithm, and stream the top 1 result per node:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.beta.jaccard.stream('', 'LIKES', {
  graph: 'huge',
  direction: 'OUTGOING',
  topK: 1
})
YIELD node1, node2, similarity
RETURN algo.asNode(node1).name AS Person1, algo.asNode(node2).name AS Person2, similarity
ORDER BY Person1
----

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Person1 | Person2 | similarity
| "Alice" | "Dave"  | 1.0
| "Bob"   | "Alice" | 0.6666666666666666
| "Carol" | "Alice" | 0.3333333333333333
| "Dave"  | "Alice" | 1.0
3+|4 rows
|===

Top limits the number of topK similarity scores across all nodes.
If the given value is positive, the results are ordered descending.
If a negative value is used, the results are ordered ascending.
A value of 0 means no global limit is imposed and results are returned in topK order.

.The following will load the graph, run the algorithm, and streams the 3 highest out of the top 1 results per node:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.beta.jaccard.stream('', 'LIKES', {
  graph: 'huge',
  direction: 'OUTGOING',
  topK: 1,
  top: 3
})
YIELD node1, node2, similarity
RETURN algo.asNode(node1).name AS Person1, algo.asNode(node2).name AS Person2, similarity
ORDER BY similarity DESC, Person1, Person2
----

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Person1 | Person2 | similarity
| "Alice" | "Dave"  | 1.0
| "Dave"  | "Alice" | 1.0
| "Bob"   | "Alice" | 0.6666666666666666
3+|3 rows
|===


[[algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-examples-degree-similarity-cutoff]]
=== Degree cutoff and similarity cutoff

Degree cutoff is a lower limit on the node degree for a node to be considered in the comparisons.
This value can not be lower than 1.

.The following will ignore nodes with less than 3 LIKES relationships:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.beta.jaccard.stream('', 'LIKES', {
  graph: 'huge',
  direction: 'OUTGOING',
  degreeCutOff: 3
})
YIELD node1, node2, similarity
RETURN algo.asNode(node1).name AS Person1, algo.asNode(node2).name AS Person2, similarity
ORDER BY Person1
----

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Person1 | Person2 | similarity
| "Alice" | "Dave"  | 1.0
| "Dave"  | "Alice" | 1.0
3+|2 rows
|===

Similarity cutoff is a lower limit for the similarity score to be present in the result.

.The following will ignore node pairs with a similarty score less than 0.5:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.beta.jaccard.stream('', 'LIKES', {
  graph: 'huge',
  direction: 'OUTGOING',
  similarityCutoff: 0.5
})
YIELD node1, node2, similarity
RETURN algo.asNode(node1).name AS Person1, algo.asNode(node2).name AS Person2, similarity
ORDER BY Person1
----

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Person1 | Person2 | similarity
| "Alice" | "Dave"  | 1.0
| "Alice" | "Bob"   | 0.6666666666666666
| "Bob"   | "Dave"  | 0.6666666666666666
| "Bob"   | "Alice" | 0.6666666666666666
| "Dave"  | "Alice" | 1.0
| "Dave"  | "Bob"   | 0.6666666666666666
3+|6 rows
|===

Commit message:

Set similarityCutoff default value to 1E-42

doc/asciidoc/neighborhood-similarity.adoc, after:

[[algorithms-neighborhood-similarity]]
= The Neighborhood Similarity algorithm

[abstract]
--
This section describes the Neighborhood Similarity (NHS) algorithm in the Neo4j Graph Algorithms library.
--

This topic includes:

* <<algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-intro, Introduction>>
* <<algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-syntax, Syntax>>
* <<algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-examples, Examples>>
** <<algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-examples-stream, Streaming results>>
** <<algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-examples-write, Writing results>>
** <<algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-examples-top-topk, Top and topK>>
** <<algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-examples-degree-similarity-cutoff, Degree cutoff and similarity cutoff>>


[[algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-intro]]
== Introduction

The Neighborhood Similarity algorithm compares a set of nodes based on the nodes they are connected to.
Two nodes are considered to be similar if they share many of the same neighbors.
Neighborhood Similarity computes pair-wise similarities based on the Jaccard metric.

The input of this algorithm is a bipartite, connected graph containing two disjoint node sets.
Each relationship starts from a node in the first node set and ends at a node in the second node set.
The NHS algorithm compares all nodes from the first node set with each other based on their relationships to nodes in the second set.
The complexity of this comparison grows quadratically with the number of nodes to compare.
The algorithm reduces the complexity by ignoring disconnected nodes.

In addition to computational complexity, the memory requirement for producing results also scales roughly quadratically.
In order to bound memory usage, the algorithm requires an explicit limit on the number of results to compute per node.
This is the 'topK' parameter.
It can be set to any value, except 0.

The output of the algorithm are new relationships between pairs of the first node set.
Similarity scores are expressed via relationship properties.

For more information on this algorithm, see:

* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Similarity_(network_science)#Structural_equivalence[Structural equivalence (Wikipedia)]
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jaccard_index[The Jaccard index (Wikipedia)].
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bipartite_graph[Bipartite graphs (Wikipedia)]

[NOTE]
====
Running this algorithm requires sufficient available memory.
Before running this algorithm, we recommend that you read <<memory-requirements>>.
====


[[algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-syntax]]
== Syntax

.The following describes the API for running the algorithm and writing results back to Neo4j:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.beta.jaccard(nodeFilter: STRING, relationshipFilter: STRING, {
  write: BOOLEAN,
  writeProperty: STRING
  // additional configuration
})
YIELD nodesCompared, relationships, write, writeRelationshipType, writeProperty
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1m,1,4"]
|===
| Name               | Type    | Default | Optional | Description
| nodeFilter         | string  | null    | yes      | The node label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes.
| relationshipFilter | string  | null    | yes      | The relationship types to load from the graph. If null, load all relationships.
| config             | map     | {}      | yes      | Additional configuration, see below.
|===

.Configuration
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name                  | Type    | Default                | Optional | Description
| graph                 | string  | 'huge'                 | yes      | Use 'huge' when describing the subset of the graph with node label and relationship type parameters. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset using Cypher queries for nodes and relationships.
| concurrency           | int     | available CPUs         | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for running the algorithm. Also provides the default value for 'readConcurrency' and 'writeConcurrency'. This is dependent on the Neo4j edition; for more information, see <<system-requirements-cpu>>.
| readConcurrency       | int     | value of 'concurrency' | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for reading the graph.
| writeConcurrency      | int     | value of 'concurrency' | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for writing the result.
| write                 | boolean | true                   | yes      | Specifies if the result should be written back as a node property.
| writeRelationshipType | string  | SIMILAR                | yes      | The relationship type used to represent a similarity score.
| writeProperty         | string  | 'score'                | yes      | The relationship property that stores the similarity score.
| similarityCutoff      | float   | 1E-42                  | yes      | Lower limit for the similarity score to be present in the result.
| degreeCutoff          | int     | 1                      | yes      | Lower limit on the node degree for a node to be considered in the comparisons. This value can not be lower than 1.
| top                   | int     | 0                      | yes      | Global limit on the number of scores computed. If positive, the result is ordered descending, otherwise ascending.
| topK                  | int     | 10                     | yes      | Limit on the number of scores computed per node. If positive, the result is ordered descending, otherwise ascending. This value can not be 0.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1,1,6"]
|===
| Name                  | Type    | Description
| nodesCompared         | int     | The number of nodes compared.
| relationships         | int     | The number of relationships created.
| write                 | boolean | Specifies if the result was written back as a node property.
| writeRelationshipType | string  | The relationship type used to represent a similarity score.
| writeProperty         | string  | The relationship property that stores the similarity score.
| loadMillis            | int     | Milliseconds for loading data.
| computeMillis         | int     | Milliseconds for running the algorithm.
| writeMillis           | int     | Milliseconds for writing result data back.
| postProcessingMillis  | int     | Milliseconds for computing percentiles.
| min                   | double  | The minimum similarity score computed.
| max                   | double  | The maximum similarity score computed.
| mean                  | double  | The mean of similarities scores computed.
| stdDev                | double  | The standard deviation of similarities scores computed.
| p1                    | double  | The 1 percentile of similarity scores computed.
| p5                    | double  | The 5 percentile of similarity scores computed.
| p10                   | double  | The 10 percentile of similarity scores computed.
| p25                   | double  | The 25 percentile of similarity scores computed.
| p50                   | double  | The 50 percentile of similarity scores computed.
| p75                   | double  | The 75 percentile of similarity scores computed.
| p90                   | double  | The 90 percentile of similarity scores computed.
| p95                   | double  | The 95 percentile of similarity scores computed.
| p99                   | double  | The 99 percentile of similarity scores computed.
| p100                  | double  | The 100 percentile of similarity scores computed.
|===

[[algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-syntax-stream]]
.The following describes the API for running the algorithm and streaming results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.beta.jaccard.stream(nodeFilter: STRING, relationshipFilter: STRING, {
  // configuration
})
YIELD node1, node2, similarity
----

.Parameters
[opts="header",cols="1,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name               | Type    | Default      | Optional | Description
| nodeFilter         | string  | null         | yes      | The node label to load from the graph. If null, load all nodes.
| relationshipFilter | string  | null         | yes      | The relationship types to load from the graph. If null, load all relationships.
| config             | map     | {}           | yes      | Additional configuration, see below.
|===

.Configuration
[opts="header",cols="1m,1,1,1,4"]
|===
| Name              | Type    | Default                | Optional | Description
| graph             | string  | 'huge'                 | yes      | Use 'huge' when describing the subset of the graph with node label and relationship type parameters. Use 'cypher' for describing the subset using Cypher queries for nodes and relationships.
| concurrency       | int     | available CPUs         | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for running the algorithm. Also provides the default value for 'readConcurrency' and 'writeConcurrency'. This is dependent on the Neo4j edition; for more information, see <<system-requirements-cpu>>.
| readConcurrency   | int     | value of 'concurrency' | yes      | The number of concurrent threads used for reading the graph.
| similarityCutoff  | float   | 1E-42                  | yes      | Lower limit for the similarity score to be present in the result.
| degreeCutoff      | int     | 1                      | yes      | Lower limit on the node degree for a node to be considered in the comparisons. This value can not be lower than 1.
| top               | int     | 0                      | yes      | Global limit on the number of scores computed. If positive, the result is ordered descending, otherwise ascending.
| topK              | int     | 10                     | yes      | Limit on the number of scores computed per node. If positive, the result is ordered descending, otherwise ascending. This value can not be 0.
|===

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1m,1,6"]
|===
| Name          | Type     | Description
| node1         | int      | Node ID
| node2         | int      | Node ID
| similarity    | double   | Similarity score
|===


[[algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-examples]]
== Examples

Consider the graph created by the following Cypher statement:

[source, cypher]
----
CREATE (alice:Person {name: 'Alice'})
CREATE (bob:Person {name: 'Bob'})
CREATE (carol:Person {name: 'Carol'})
CREATE (dave:Person {name: 'Dave'})
CREATE (eve:Person {name: 'Eve'})
CREATE (guitar:Instrument {name: 'Guitar'})
CREATE (synth:Instrument {name: 'Synthesizer'})
CREATE (bongos:Instrument {name: 'Bongos'})
CREATE (trumpet:Instrument {name: 'Trumpet'})

CREATE (alice)-[:LIKES]->(guitar)
CREATE (alice)-[:LIKES]->(synth)
CREATE (alice)-[:LIKES]->(bongos)
CREATE (bob)-[:LIKES]->(guitar)
CREATE (bob)-[:LIKES]->(synth)
CREATE (carol)-[:LIKES]->(bongos)
CREATE (dave)-[:LIKES]->(guitar)
CREATE (dave)-[:LIKES]->(synth)
CREATE (dave)-[:LIKES]->(bongos);
----

This bipartite graph has two node sets, Person nodes and Instrument nodes.
The two node sets are connected via LIKES relationships.
Each relationship starts at a Person node and ends at an Instrument node.

In the example, we want to use NHS to compare persons based on the instruments they like.

The NHS algorithm will only compute similarity for nodes that have a degree of at least 1.
In the example graph, the Eve node will not be compared to other Person nodes.

The graph is bipartite, but the library does not support loading multiple node labels.
In order to load both node sets, Persons and Instruments, we need to pass an empty node filter.

[NOTE]
====
Loading a graph with an empty node filter means all the nodes in the Neo4j graph are loaded.
To circumvent this, an common node label like 'Node' can be added to Person and Instrument nodes.
====


[[algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-examples-stream]]
=== Streaming results

.The following will load the graph, run the algorithm, and stream results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.beta.jaccard.stream('', 'LIKES', {
  graph: 'huge',
  direction: 'OUTGOING'
})
YIELD node1, node2, similarity
RETURN algo.asNode(node1).name AS Person1, algo.asNode(node2).name AS Person2, similarity
ORDER BY similarity DESCENDING, Person1, Person2
----

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Person1 | Person2 | similarity
| "Alice" | "Dave"  | 1.0
| "Dave"  | "Alice" | 1.0
| "Alice" | "Bob"   | 0.6666666666666666
| "Bob"   | "Alice" | 0.6666666666666666
| "Bob"   | "Dave"  | 0.6666666666666666
| "Dave"  | "Bob"   | 0.6666666666666666
| "Alice" | "Carol" | 0.3333333333333333
| "Carol" | "Alice" | 0.3333333333333333
| "Carol" | "Dave"  | 0.3333333333333333
| "Dave"  | "Carol" | 0.3333333333333333
| "Bob"   | "Carol" | 0.0
| "Carol" | "Bob"   | 0.0
3+|12 rows
|===

We use default values for the procedure configuration parameter.
TopK is set to 10, top is set to 0.
Because of that the result set contains the top 10 similarity scores for each node.


[[algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-examples-write]]
=== Writing results

To instead write the similarity results back to the graph in Neo4j, use the following query.
Each result is written as a relationship between the compared nodes.
The similarity score is written as a property on the relationship.

.The following will load the graph, run the algorithm, and write back results:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.beta.jaccard('', 'LIKES', {
  graph: 'huge',
  direction: 'OUTGOING',
  write: true
})
YIELD nodesCompared, relationships, write, writeProperty, writeRelationshipType;
----

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| nodesCompared | relationships | write | writeProperty | writeRelationshipType
| 4             | 12            | true  | "score"       | "SIMILAR"
|===

As we can see from the results, the number of created relationships is equal to the number of rows in the streaming example.


[[algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-examples-top-topk]]
=== TopK and top

TopK is a limit on the number of scores computed per node.
If the given value is positive, the results per node are ordered descending.
If a negative value is used, the results are ordered ascending.
TopK cannot be 0 and the default value is 10.

.The following will load the graph, run the algorithm, and stream the top 1 result per node:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.beta.jaccard.stream('', 'LIKES', {
  graph: 'huge',
  direction: 'OUTGOING',
  topK: 1
})
YIELD node1, node2, similarity
RETURN algo.asNode(node1).name AS Person1, algo.asNode(node2).name AS Person2, similarity
ORDER BY Person1
----

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Person1 | Person2 | similarity
| "Alice" | "Dave"  | 1.0
| "Bob"   | "Alice" | 0.6666666666666666
| "Carol" | "Alice" | 0.3333333333333333
| "Dave"  | "Alice" | 1.0
3+|4 rows
|===

Top limits the number of topK similarity scores across all nodes.
If the given value is positive, the results are ordered descending.
If a negative value is used, the results are ordered ascending.
A value of 0 means no global limit is imposed and results are returned in topK order.

.The following will load the graph, run the algorithm, and streams the 3 highest out of the top 1 results per node:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.beta.jaccard.stream('', 'LIKES', {
  graph: 'huge',
  direction: 'OUTGOING',
  topK: 1,
  top: 3
})
YIELD node1, node2, similarity
RETURN algo.asNode(node1).name AS Person1, algo.asNode(node2).name AS Person2, similarity
ORDER BY similarity DESC, Person1, Person2
----

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Person1 | Person2 | similarity
| "Alice" | "Dave"  | 1.0
| "Dave"  | "Alice" | 1.0
| "Bob"   | "Alice" | 0.6666666666666666
3+|3 rows
|===


[[algorithms-neighborhood-similarity-examples-degree-similarity-cutoff]]
=== Degree cutoff and similarity cutoff

Degree cutoff is a lower limit on the node degree for a node to be considered in the comparisons.
This value can not be lower than 1.

.The following will ignore nodes with less than 3 LIKES relationships:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.beta.jaccard.stream('', 'LIKES', {
  graph: 'huge',
  direction: 'OUTGOING',
  degreeCutOff: 3
})
YIELD node1, node2, similarity
RETURN algo.asNode(node1).name AS Person1, algo.asNode(node2).name AS Person2, similarity
ORDER BY Person1
----

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Person1 | Person2 | similarity
| "Alice" | "Dave"  | 1.0
| "Dave"  | "Alice" | 1.0
3+|2 rows
|===

Similarity cutoff is a lower limit for the similarity score to be present in the result.
The default value is set to 1E-42 to exclude results with a similarity score of 0.

[NOTE]
====
Setting similarityCutoff to 0 will compute a potentially vast result set.
This can lead to an increased runtime during streaming and writing.
====

.The following will ignore node pairs with a similarty score less than 0.5:
[source, cypher]
----
CALL algo.beta.jaccard.stream('', 'LIKES', {
  graph: 'huge',
  direction: 'OUTGOING',
  similarityCutoff: 0.5
})
YIELD node1, node2, similarity
RETURN algo.asNode(node1).name AS Person1, algo.asNode(node2).name AS Person2, similarity
ORDER BY Person1
----

.Results
[opts="header"]
|===
| Person1 | Person2 | similarity
| "Alice" | "Dave"  | 1.0
| "Alice" | "Bob"   | 0.6666666666666666
| "Bob"   | "Dave"  | 0.6666666666666666
| "Bob"   | "Alice" | 0.6666666666666666
| "Dave"  | "Alice" | 1.0
| "Dave"  | "Bob"   | 0.6666666666666666
3+|6 rows
|===
