doc/asciidoc/system-requirements.adoc, before:

[[System-requirements]]
= System Requirements

== Main Memory

The GDS library runs within a Neo4j instance and is therefore subject to the general https://neo4j.com/docs/operations-manual/3.5/performance/memory-configuration/[Neo4j memory configuration].

.GDS heap memory usage
image::memory-usage.png[width=600]

=== Heap size

The heap space is used for storing graph projections in the graph catalog and algorithm state.
When writing algorithm results back to Neo4j, heap space is also used for handling transaction state (see https://neo4j.com/docs/operations-manual/3.5/reference/configuration-settings/#config_dbms.tx_state.memory_allocation[dbms.tx_state.memory_allocation]).
For purely analytical workloads, a general recommendation is to set the heap space to about 90% of the available main memory.
This can be done via https://neo4j.com/docs/operations-manual/3.5/reference/configuration-settings/#config_dbms.memory.heap.initial_size[dbms.memory.heap.initial_size] and https://neo4j.com/docs/operations-manual/3.5/reference/configuration-settings/#config_dbms.memory.heap.max_size[dbms.memory.heap.max_size].

To better estimate the heap space required to create in-memory graphs and run algorithms, consider the <<memory-estimation>> feature.
The feature estimates the memory consumption of all involved data structures using information about number of nodes and relationships from the Neo4j count store.

=== Page cache

The page cache is used to cache the Neo4j data and will help to avoid costly disk access.

For purely analytical workloads using <<native-projection, native projections>>, it is recommended to decrease https://neo4j.com/docs/operations-manual/3.5/reference/configuration-settings/#config_dbms.memory.pagecache.size[dbms.memory.pagecache.size] in favor of an increased heap size.
However, setting a minimum page cache size is still important while creating in-memory graphs:

* For <<native-projection, native projections>>, the minimum page cache size can be roughly estimated by `8KB * 100 * readConcurrency`.
* For <<cypher-projection, Cypher projections>>, a higher page cache is required depending on the query complexity.

[NOTE]
====
Decreasing the page cache size is *not* recommended if the Neo4j instance runs both, operational and analytical workloads at the same time.
See https://neo4j.com/docs/operations-manual/3.5/performance/memory-configuration/[Neo4j memory configuration] for general information about page cache sizing.
====

[[system-requirements-cpu]]
== CPU

The library uses multiple CPUs for data loading, processing, and writing back results.

[NOTE]
====
Up to 4 CPUs will be used when running the library on Neo4j Community Edition.
All CPUs will be used when running on Neo4j Enterprise Edition.
====

Most of the algorithms in the library run in parallel, by splitting up the nodes and assigning them to different threads that run part of the algorithm for that node.

Commit message:

Consider writing back to Neo in page cache recommendation section
Co-authored-by: Max Kießling <max.kiessling@neotechnology.com>

doc/asciidoc/system-requirements.adoc, after:

[[System-requirements]]
= System Requirements

== Main Memory

The GDS library runs within a Neo4j instance and is therefore subject to the general https://neo4j.com/docs/operations-manual/3.5/performance/memory-configuration/[Neo4j memory configuration].

.GDS heap memory usage
image::memory-usage.png[width=600]

=== Heap size

The heap space is used for storing graph projections in the graph catalog and algorithm state.
When writing algorithm results back to Neo4j, heap space is also used for handling transaction state (see https://neo4j.com/docs/operations-manual/3.5/reference/configuration-settings/#config_dbms.tx_state.memory_allocation[dbms.tx_state.memory_allocation]).
For purely analytical workloads, a general recommendation is to set the heap space to about 90% of the available main memory.
This can be done via https://neo4j.com/docs/operations-manual/3.5/reference/configuration-settings/#config_dbms.memory.heap.initial_size[dbms.memory.heap.initial_size] and https://neo4j.com/docs/operations-manual/3.5/reference/configuration-settings/#config_dbms.memory.heap.max_size[dbms.memory.heap.max_size].

To better estimate the heap space required to create in-memory graphs and run algorithms, consider the <<memory-estimation>> feature.
The feature estimates the memory consumption of all involved data structures using information about number of nodes and relationships from the Neo4j count store.

=== Page cache

The page cache is used to cache the Neo4j data and will help to avoid costly disk access.

For purely analytical workloads using <<native-projection, native projections>>, it is recommended to decrease https://neo4j.com/docs/operations-manual/3.5/reference/configuration-settings/#config_dbms.memory.pagecache.size[dbms.memory.pagecache.size] in favor of an increased heap size.
However, setting a minimum page cache size is still important while creating in-memory graphs:

* For <<native-projection, native projections>>, the minimum page cache size for creating the in-memory graph can be roughly estimated by `8KB * 100 * readConcurrency`.
* For <<cypher-projection, Cypher projections>>, a higher page cache is required depending on the query complexity.

However, if it is required to write algorithm results back to Neo4j, the write performance is highly depended on store fragmentation as well as the number of properties and relationships to write.
We recommend starting with a page cache size of roughly `~250MB * writeConcurrency` and evaluate write performance and adapt accordingly.
Ideally, if the <<memory-estimation, memory estimation>> feature has been used to find a good heap size, the remaining memory can be used for page cache and OS.

[NOTE]
====
Decreasing the page cache size in favor of heap size is *not* recommended if the Neo4j instance runs both, operational and analytical workloads at the same time.
See https://neo4j.com/docs/operations-manual/3.5/performance/memory-configuration/[Neo4j memory configuration] for general information about page cache sizing.
====

[[system-requirements-cpu]]
== CPU

The library uses multiple CPUs for data loading, processing, and writing back results.

[NOTE]
====
Up to 4 CPUs will be used when running the library on Neo4j Community Edition.
All CPUs will be used when running on Neo4j Enterprise Edition.
====

Most of the algorithms in the library run in parallel, by splitting up the nodes and assigning them to different threads that run part of the algorithm for that node.
