doc/asciidoc/management-ops/utility-functions.adoc, before:

[[utility-functions]]
= Utility functions

This section describes the utility functions and shows their usage in concrete examples.

[[utility-functions-table]]
[opts=header,cols="1m,1m"]
|===
| Name                | Description
| gds.version         | Return the version of the installed Neo4j Graph Data Science library.
|===

.Usage:
[source, cypher]
----
RETURN gds.version() as version
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| version
| "0.9.1"
|===

== Numeric Functions

.Numeric Functions
[[Numeric-functions-table]]
[opts=header,cols="1m,1m"]
|===
| Name                | Description
| gds.util.NaN        | Returns NaN as a Cypher value.
| gds.util.infinity   | Return infinity as a Cypher value.
| gds.util.isFinite   | Return true iff the given argument is a finite value (not ±Infinity, NaN, or null).
| gds.util.isInfinite | Return true iff the given argument is not a finite value (not ±Infinity, NaN, or null).
|===

=== Syntax
[[Numeric-functions-syntax-table]]
[opts=header,cols="1m,1m"]
|===
| Name                                  | Parameter
| gds.util.NaN()                        | -
| gds.util.infinity()                   | -
| gds.util.isFinite(value: NUMBER)      | value to be checked if it is finite
| gds.util.isInfinite(value: NUMBER)    | value to be checked if it is infinite.
----
|===

=== Examples

.Example for gds.util.IsFinite:
[source, cypher]
----
UNWIND [1.0, gds.util.NaN(), gds.util.infinity()] as value
RETURN gds.util.isFinite(value) as isFinite
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| isFinite
| true
| false
| false
|===

.Example for gds.util.isFinite():
[source, cypher]
----
UNWIND [1.0, gds.util.NaN(), gds.util.infinity()] as value
RETURN gds.util.isInfinite(value) as isInfinite
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| isInfinite
| false
| true
| true
|===


== Node and Path Functions

.Node and Path Functions
[[Node-and-Path-functions-table]]
[opts=header,cols="1m,1m"]
|===
| Name                | Description
| gds.util.asNode     | Return the node object for the given node id or null if none exists.
| gds.util.asNodes    | Return the node objects for the given node ids or an empty list if none exists.
| gds.util.asPath     | Return a path object for the provided node ids and weights.
|===

=== Syntax

[[Node-and-Path-functions-syntax-table]]
[opts=header,cols="1m,1m"]
|===
| Name                                                                                      | Parameters
| gds.util.asNode(nodeId: NUMBER)                                                           | nodeId of a node in the neo4j-graph
| gds.util.asNodes(nodeIds: NUMBER[])                                                   | list of nodeIds of nodes in the neo4j-graph
.3+| gds.util.asPath(nodeIds: NUMBER[], weights: NUMBER[], cumulativeWeights: BOOL) | nodeIds: nodeIds representing neo4j nodes
                                                                                            | weights: weights for the relationships between the nodes
                                                                                            | cumulativeWeights: whether the weights should be cumulated along the path
----
|===

=== Examples

// TODO: text for examples

.Example graph:
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE  (nAlice:User {name: 'Alice'})
CREATE  (nBridget:User {name: 'Bridget'})
CREATE  (nCharles:User {name: 'Charles'})
CREATE  (nAlice)-[:LINK]->(nBridget)
CREATE  (nBridget)-[:LINK]->(nCharles)
----


.Example for gds.util.asNode:
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (u:User{name: 'Alice'})
WITH id(u) as nodeId
RETURN gds.util.asNode(nodeId) as node
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| node
| Node[0]{name:"Alice"}
|===

.Example for gds.util.asNodes:
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (u:User)
WHERE NOT u.name = 'Charles'
WITH collect(id(u)) as nodeIds
RETURN gds.util.asNodes(nodeIds) as nodes
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| nodes
| [Node[0]{name:"Alice"},Node[1]{name:"Bridget"}]
|===


.Example for gds.util.asPath:
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (u1)->(u2)->(u3)
WITH collect(id(u1), id(u2), id(u3)) as nodeIds
RETURN gds.util.asPath(nodeIds) as path
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| path
| (0)-[-1:NEXT]->(1)-[-2:NEXT]->(2)
|===

// TODO: uncomment example if we know how to access the relationship properties of a path
//.Example for gds.util.asPath:
//[source, cypher]
//----
//MATCH (u1)->(u2)->(u3)
//WITH collect(id(u1), id(u2), id(u3)) as nodeIds, [2, 4] as weights
//RETURN gds.util.asPath(nodeIds, weights, true) as path
//----

//.Results
//[opts="header",cols="1"]
//|===
//| nodes
//| [Node[0]{name:"Alice"},Node[1]{name:"Bridget"}]
//|===

// TODO: add examples with real algo calls

Commit message:

Explain further usage of the utility functions

doc/asciidoc/management-ops/utility-functions.adoc, after:

[[utility-functions]]
= Utility functions

This section describes the utility functions and shows their usage in concrete examples.

[[utility-functions-table]]
[opts=header,cols="1m,1m"]
|===
| Name                | Description
| gds.version         | Return the version of the installed Neo4j Graph Data Science library.
|===

.Usage:
[source, cypher]
----
RETURN gds.version() as version
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| version
| "0.9.1"
|===

== Numeric Functions

.Numeric Functions
[[Numeric-functions-table]]
[opts=header,cols="1m,1m"]
|===
| Name                | Description
| gds.util.NaN        | Returns NaN as a Cypher value.
| gds.util.infinity   | Return infinity as a Cypher value.
| gds.util.isFinite   | Return true iff the given argument is a finite value (not ±Infinity, NaN, or null).
| gds.util.isInfinite | Return true iff the given argument is not a finite value (not ±Infinity, NaN, or null).
|===

=== Syntax

[[Numeric-functions-syntax-table]]
[opts=header,cols="1m,1m"]
|===
| Name                                  | Parameter
| gds.util.NaN()                        | -
| gds.util.infinity()                   | -
| gds.util.isFinite(value: NUMBER)      | value to be checked if it is finite
| gds.util.isInfinite(value: NUMBER)    | value to be checked if it is infinite.
|===

=== Examples

.Example for gds.util.IsFinite:
[source, cypher]
----
UNWIND [1.0, gds.util.NaN(), gds.util.infinity()] as value
RETURN gds.util.isFinite(value) as isFinite
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| isFinite
| true
| false
| false
|===

.Example for gds.util.isInfinite():
[source, cypher]
----
UNWIND [1.0, gds.util.NaN(), gds.util.infinity()] as value
RETURN gds.util.isInfinite(value) as isInfinite
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| isInfinite
| false
| true
| true
|===

The utility function `gds.util.NaN` can be used as an default value for input parameters, as shown in the examples of <<[[algorithms-similarity-cosine-procedure-sample]], cosine similarity>>.
A common usage of `gds.util.IsFinite` and `gds.util.IsInfinite` is for filtering streamed results, as for instance seen in the examples of <<algorithm-all-pairs-shortest-path-sample, `gds.alpha.allShortestPaths`>>.

== Node and Path Functions

.Node and Path Functions
[[Node-and-Path-functions-table]]
[opts=header,cols="1m,1m"]
|===
| Name                | Description
| gds.util.asNode     | Return the node object for the given node id or null if none exists.
| gds.util.asNodes    | Return the node objects for the given node ids or an empty list if none exists.
| gds.util.asPath     | Return a path object for the provided node ids and weights.
|===

=== Syntax

[[Node-and-Path-functions-syntax-table]]
[opts=header,cols="1m,1m"]
|===
| Name                                                                                      | Parameters
| gds.util.asNode(nodeId: NUMBER)                                                           | nodeId of a node in the neo4j-graph
| gds.util.asNodes(nodeIds: NUMBER[])                                                       | list of nodeIds of nodes in the neo4j-graph
.3+| gds.util.asPath(nodeIds: NUMBER[], weights: NUMBER[], cumulativeWeights: BOOL)         | nodeIds: nodeIds representing neo4j nodes
                                                                                            | weights: weights for the relationships between the nodes
                                                                                            | cumulativeWeights: whether the given weights are cumulative. This means the weights also contain a base value e.g. one more value than node-ids
|===

=== Examples

Consider the graph created by the following Cypher statement:

.Example graph:
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE  (nAlice:User {name: 'Alice'})
CREATE  (nBridget:User {name: 'Bridget'})
CREATE  (nCharles:User {name: 'Charles'})
CREATE  (nAlice)-[:LINK]->(nBridget)
CREATE  (nBridget)-[:LINK]->(nCharles)
----


.Example for gds.util.asNode:
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (u:User{name: 'Alice'})
WITH id(u) as nodeId
RETURN gds.util.asNode(nodeId) as node
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| node
| Node[0]{name:"Alice"}
|===


.Example for gds.util.asNodes:
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (u:User)
WHERE NOT u.name = 'Charles'
WITH collect(id(u)) as nodeIds
RETURN gds.util.asNodes(nodeIds) as nodes
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| nodes
| [Node[0]{name:"Alice"},Node[1]{name:"Bridget"}]
|===

As many algorithms streaming mode only return the node id, `gds.util.asNode` and `gds.util.asNodes` can be used to retrieve the whole node from the neo4j database.

.Example for gds.util.asPath:
[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (u1)->(u2)->(u3)
WITH collect(id(u1), id(u2), id(u3)) as nodeIds
RETURN gds.util.asPath(nodeIds) as path
----

.Results
[opts="header",cols="1"]
|===
| path
| (0)-[-1:NEXT]->(1)-[-2:NEXT]->(2)
|===

// TODO: uncomment example if we know how to access the relationship properties of a path
//.Example for gds.util.asPath:
//[source, cypher]
//----
//MATCH (u1)->(u2)->(u3)
//WITH collect(id(u1), id(u2), id(u3)) as nodeIds, [2, 4] as weights
//RETURN gds.util.asPath(nodeIds, weights, true) as path
//----

//.Results
//[opts="header",cols="1"]
//|===
//| nodes
//| [Node[0]{name:"Alice"},Node[1]{name:"Bridget"}]
//|===

// TODO: add examples with real algo calls
